>>> HILLARY CLINTON IS THE MOST
CORRUPT PERSON EVER TO RUN FOR
PRESIDENT.
>> I'M REALLY -- I REALLY DON'T
CAREWHAT HE SAYS ABOUT ME, BUT I
WILL STAND UP AND DEFEND
EVERYONE ELSE WHO HE INSULTS.
>> THE ELECTION IS BEING RIGGED
BY CORRUPT MEDIA PUSHING
OUTRIGHT LIES.
>> WHEN THEY GO LOW, WE GO HIGH.
>> FROM NBC NEWS, DECISION 2016,
THE FINAL PRESIDENTIAL DEBATE.
LIVE FROM THE UNIVERSITY OF
NEVADA, LAS VEGAS, HERE NOW,
LESTER HOLT.
>> AND GOOD EVENING FROM LAS
VEGAS.
THE THIRD AND FINAL DEBATE
BETWEEN HILLARY CLINTON AND
DONALD TRUMP LESS THAN THREE
MINUTES AWAY.
THE BACK DROP A DAY OF SURPRISE
GUEST ANNOUNCE.
S AND CAMPAIGN STUNTS.
TRUMP IN NEED OF GAME CHANGING
MOMENT LOOKING TO RATTLE CLINTON
BEFORE THE DEBATE GETS UNDER
WAY.
THIS IS A PRESIDENTIAL DEBATE.
WE'RE HERE BECAUSE THERE ARE
SERIOUS ISSUES TO DISCUSS AND
SERIOUS DIFFERENCES BETWEEN
THESE TWO
I'M JOIN BY SAVANNAH GUTHRIE,
CHUCK TODD AND TOM BROKAW.
>> SO WE'RE HERE IN VEGAS, HIGH
STAKES, THE CANDIDATES WILL PUT
IT ON THE TABLE TONIGHT.
THIS IS THE LAST TIME THAT
EITHER CANDIDATE GETS A BIG
NATIONAL AUDIENCE LIKE THIS.
AND SO THEY HAVE A POTENTIAL FOR
A GAME-CHANGER AND DONALD TRUMP
NEEDS A GAME-CHANGER.
HE FINDS HIMSELF BEHIND IN THE
POLLS.
THINK OF WHERE WE WERE WITH THE
FIRST DEBATE.
THE ONE YOU MODERATED.
HE HAD BROUGHT THIS TO BE A VERY
TIGHT RACE.
HE'S IN A DIFFERENT SITUATION
TONIGHT.
AND HE NEEDS TO TURN IT AROUND.
>> CHUCK, YOU'RE LOOKING AT THE
LONG GAME FOR REPUBLICANS.
>> IT IS.
THIS ISN'T JUST ABOUT TRUMP
NEEDING A GOOD NIGHT.
IF YOU'RE ON THE BALLOT
UNDERNEATH DONALD TRUMP'S NAME,
YOU NEED HIM TO HAVE A GOOD
NIGHT.
I TALKED TO MANY REPUBLICAN
STRATEGISTS FOR THE HOUSE AND
THE SENATE CAMPAIGNS, THEY SAID
THE BOTTOM CAN FALL OUT AND THE
SPEAKER RYAN'S JOB CAN BE AT
STAKE.
>> TALK ABOUT CLINTON.
>> SHE NEEDS TO NOT TAKE THE
BAIT AND WE KNOW SHE'S NOT
RUNNING AS STRONG AMONG THE
MILLENNIALS.
SHE HAS TO BE PRESIDENTIAL.
>> LET'S CHECK OUT THE SPIN
ROOM.
WHAT ARE YOU HEARING, ANDREA
MITCHELL?
>> WELL, CLINTON DEBATE COACHES
ARE VERY POSITIVE IF ANYTHING I
THINK THEY HAVE PROBABLY
OVERCONFIDENCE.
THEY THINK IF THE DEBATE TURNS
TO SERIOUS ISSUES IT FAVORS HER.
IF HE SHOULD TURN IT INTO A
CIRCUS WITH STUNTS, THEY THINK
THAT SHE COULD LOOK MORE
SYMPATHETIC.
SO THAT'S THE WAY THEY SEE IT
FROM HERE. PODIUM AND CHRIS WAL
>> GOOD EVENING FROM THE THOMAS
AND MACK CENTER IN LAS VEGAS.
I'M CHRIS WALLACE OF FOX NEWS, I
WELCOME YOU TO THE THIRD AND THE
FINAL OF THE 2016 PRESIDENTIAL
DEBATES BETWEEN SECRETARY OF
STATE HILLARY CLINTON AND DONALD
J. TRUMP.
THIS DEBATE IS SPONSORED BY THE
COMMISSION ON PRESIDENTIAL
DEBATES.
THE COMMISSION HAS DESIGNED THE
FORMAT.
SIX ROUGHLY 15 MINUTE SEGMENTS
WITH TWO MINUTE ANSWERS TO THE
FIRST QUESTION.
THEN OPEN DISCUSSIONS FOR THE
REST OF EACH SEGMENT.
BOTH CAMPAIGNS HAVE AGREED TO
THE RULES.
FOR THE RECORD, I DECIDED THE
TOPICS AND THE QUESTIONS IN EACH
TOPIC.
NONE OF THOSE QUESTIONS HAS BEEN
SHARED WITH THE COMMISSION OR
THE TWO CANDIDATES.
THE AUDIENCE HERE IN THE HALL
HAS PROMISED TO REMAIN SILENT.
NO CHEERS, BOOS, OR OTHER
INTERRUPTIONS SO WE AND YOU CAN
FOCUS ON WHAT THE CANDIDATES
HAVE TO SAY.
NO NOISE EXCEPT RIGHT NOW, AS WE
WELCOME THE DEMOCRATIC NOMINEE
FOR PRESIDENT, SECRETARY CLINTON
AND THE REPUBLICAN NOMINEE FOR
PRESIDENT, MR. TRUMP.
SECRETARY CLINTON, MR. TRUMP,
WELCOME.
LET'S GET RIGHT TO IT.
THE FIRST TOPIC IS THE SUPREME
COURT.
WE -- YOU BOTH TALKED BRIEFLY
ABOUT THE COURT IN THE LAST
DEBATE BUT I WANT TO DRILL DOWN
ON THIS BECAUSE THE NEXT
PRESIDENT WILL ALMOST CERTAINLY
HAVE AT LEAST ONE APPOINTMENT
AND LIKELY OR POSSIBLY TWO OR
THREE APPOINTMENTS, WHICH MEANS
THAT YOU WILL IN EFFECT
DETERMINE THE BALANCE OF THE
COURT FOR WHAT COULD BE THE NEXT
QUARTER CENTURY.
FIRST OF ALL, WHERE DO YOU WANT
TO SEE THE COURT TAKE THE
COUNTRY AND SECONDLY, WHAT'S
YOUR VIEW ON HOW THE
CONSTITUTION SHOULD BE
INTERPRETED?
DO THE FOUNDERS' WORDS MEAN WHAT
THEY SAY OR IS IT A LIVING
DOCUMENT TO BE APPLIED FLEXIBLY
ACCORDING TO CHANGING
CIRCUMSTANCES?
IN THIS SEGMENT, SECRETARY
CLINTON, YOU HAVE TWO MINUTES.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH, CHRIS.
THANKS TO UNLV FOR HOSTING US.
I THINK WHEN WE TALK ABOUT THE
SUPREME COURT IT REALLY RAISES
THE CENTRAL ISSUE IN THIS
ELECTION.
NAMELY WHAT KIND OF COUNTRY WE
GOING TO BE?
WHAT KIND OF OPPORTUNITIES WILL
WE PROVIDE FOR OUR CITIZENS,
WHAT KIND OF RIGHTS WILL
AMERICANS HAVE.
AND I FEEL STRONGLY THAT THE
SUPREME COURT NEEDS TO STAND ON
THE SIDE OF THE AMERICAN PEOPLE.
NOT ON THE SIDE OF THE POWERFUL
CORPORATIONS AND THE WEALTHY.
FOR ME, THAT MEANS THAT WE NEED
A SUPREME COURT THAT WILL STAND
UP ON BEHALF OF WOMEN'S RIGHTS,
ON BEHALF OF THE RIGHTS OF THE
LGBT COMMUNITY.
THAT WILL STAND UP AND SAY NO TO
CITIZENS UNITED, A DECISION THAT
HAS UNDERMINED THE ELECTION
SYSTEM IN OUR COUNTRY BECAUSE OF
THE WAY IT PERMITS DARK,
UNACCOUNTABLE MONEY TO COME IN
TO OUR ELECTORAL SYSTEM.
I HAVE MAJOR DISAGREES WITH MY
OPPONENT ABOUT THESE ISSUES AND
OTHERS THAT WILL BE BEFORE THE
SUPREME COURT.
BUT I FEEL THAT AT THIS POINT IN
OUR COUNTRY'S HISTORY, IT IS
IMPORTANT THAT WE NOT REVERSE
MARRIAGE EQUALITY, THAT WE NOT
REVERSE ROE VS. WADE.
THAT WE STAND UP AGAINST
CITIZENS UNITED.
WE STAND UP FOR THE RIGHTS OF
PEOPLE IN THE WORKPLACE THAT WE
STAND UP AND BASICALLY SAY THE
SUPREME COURT SHOULD REPRESENT
ALL OF US.
THAT'S HOW I SEE THE COURT AND
THE KIND OF PEOPLE THAT I WOULD
BE LOOKING TO NOMINATE TO THE
COURT.
WOULD BE IN THE GREAT TRADITION
OF STANDING UP TO THE POWERFUL,
STANDING UP ON BEHALF OF OUR
RIGHTS AS AMERICANS.
AND I LOOK FORWARD TO HAVING
THAT OPPORTUNITY.
I WOULD HOPE THAT THE SENATE
WOULD DO ITS JOB AND CONFIRM THE
NOMINEE THAT PRESIDENT OBAMA HAS
SENT TO THEM.
THAT'S THE WAY THE CONSTITUTION
FUNDAMENTALLY SHOULD OPERATE.
THE PRESIDENT NOMINATES AND THEN
THE SENATE ADVISES AND CONSENTS
OR NOT, BUT THEY GO FORWARD WITH
THE PROCESS.
>> SECRETARY CLINTON, THANK YOU.
MR. TRUMP, SAME QUESTION.
WHERE DO YOU WANT TO SEE THE
COURT TAKE THE COUNTRY AND HOW
DO YOU BELIEVE THE CONSTITUTION
SHOULD BE INTERPRETED?
>> WELL, FIRST OF ALL, IT'S
GREAT TO BE WITH YOU AND THANK
YOU, EVERYBODY.
THE SUPREME COURT IT'S WHAT IT'S
ALL ABOUT.
OUR COUNTRY IS SO, SO -- JUST SO
IMPERATIVE THAT WE HAVE THE
RIGHT JUSTICES.
SOMETHING HAPPENED RECENTLY
WHERE JUSTICE GINSBURG MADE SOME
VERY, VERY INAPPROPRIATE
STATEMENTS TOWARD ME AND TOWARD
A TREMENDOUS NUMBER OF PEOPLE,
MANY, MANY MILLIONS OF PEOPLE
THAT I REPRESENT.
AND SHE WAS FORCED TO APOLOGIZE,
AND APOLOGIZE SHE DID.
BUT THESE WERE STATEMENTS THAT
SHOULD NEVER EVER HAVE BEEN
MADE.
WE NEED A SUPREME COURT THAT IN
MY OPINION IS GOING TO UPHOLD
THE SECOND AMENDMENT AND ALL
AMENDMENTS BUT THE SECOND
AMENDMENT WHICH IS UNDER
ABSOLUTE SIEGE.
I BELIEVE IF MY OPPONENT SHOULD
WIN THIS RACE, WHICH I TRULY
DON'T THINK WILL HAPPEN, WE WILL
HAVE A SECOND AMENDMENT WHICH
WILL BE A VERY, VERY SMALL
REPLICA OF WHAT IT IS RIGHT NOW.
BUT I FEEL THAT IT'S ABSOLUTELY
IMPORTANT THAT WE UPHOLD BECAUSE
OF THE FACT THAT IT IS UNDER
SUCH TRAUMA.
I FEEL THAT THE JUSTICES THAT I
AM GOING TO APPOINT -- I HAVE
NAMED 20 OF THEM, THE JUSTICES
THAT I'M GOING TO APPOINT WILL
BE PRO LIVE.
THEY WILL HAVE A CONSERVATIVE
BENT.
THEY WILL BE PROTECTING THE
SECOND AMENDMENT.
THEY ARE GREAT SCHOLARS IN ALL
CASES AND THEY'RE PEOPLE OF
TREMENDOUS RESPECT.
THEY WILL INTERPRET THE
CONSTITUTION THE WAY THE
FOUNDERS WANTED IT INTERPRETED.
AND I BELIEVE THAT'S VERY, VERY
IMPORTANT.
I DON'T THINK WE SHOULD HAVE
JUSTICES APPOINTED THAT DECIDE
WHAT THEY WANT TO HEAR.
IT'S ALL ABOUT THE CONSTITUTION
OF -- AND SO IMPORTANT, THE
CONSTITUTION THE WAY IT WAS
MEANT TO BE.
AND THOSE ARE THE PEOPLE THAT I
WILL APPOINT.
>> MR. TRUMP, THANK YOU.
WE NOW HAVE ABOUT TEN MINUTES
FOR AN OPEN DISCUSSION.
I WANT TO FOCUS ON TWO ISSUES
THAT IN FACT BY THE JUSTICES
THAT YOU NAME COULD END UP
CHANGING THE EXISTING LAW OF THE
LAND.
FIRST IS ONE THAT YOU MENTIONED,
MR. TRUMP, GUNS.
SECRETARY CLINTON YOU SAID LAST
YEAR, LET ME QUOTE, THE SUPREME
COURT IS WRONG ON THE SECOND
AMENDMENT.
NOW IN FACT IN THE 2008 HELLER
CASE THE COURT RULED THERE'S A
CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHT TO BEAR
ARMS BUT A RIGHT THAT IS
REASONABLY LIMITED.
THOSE WERE THE WORDS OF THE
JUDGE ANTONIN SCALIA WHO WROTE
THE DECISION.
WHAT'S WRONG WITH THAT?
>> WELL, FIRST OF ALL, I SUPPORT
THE SECOND AMENDMENT.
I LIVED IN ARKANSAS FOR 18
WONDERFUL YEARS.
I REPRESENTED UPSTATE NEW YORK.
I UNDERSTAND AND RESPECT THE
TRADITION OF GUN OWNERSHIP.
IT GOES BACK TO THE FOUNDING OF
OUR COUNTRY.
BUT I ALSO BELIEVE THAT THERE
CAN BE AND MUST BE REASONABLE
REGULATION.
BECAUSE I SUPPORT THE SECOND
AMENDMENT DOESN'T MEAN THAT I
WANT PEOPLE WHO SHOULDN'T HAVE
GUNS TO BE ABLE TO THREATEN YOU,
KILL YOU OR MEMBERS OF YOUR
FAMILY.
AND SO WHEN I THINK ABOUT WHAT
WE NEED TO DO, WE HAVE 33,000
PEOPLE A YEAR WHO DIE FROM GUNS.
I THINK WE NEED COMPREHENSIVE
BACKGROUND CHECKS, NEED TO CLOSE
THE ONLINE LOOP HOOL.
CLOSE THE GUN SHOW LOOPHOLE.
THE KIND OF REFORMS THAT WOULD
MAKE A DIFFERENCE THAT ARE NOT
IN ANY WAY CONFLICTING WITH THE
SECOND AMENDMENT.
YOU MENTIONED THE HELLER
DECISION.
WHAT I WAS SAYING THAT YOU
REFERENCED, CHRIS, WAS THAT I
DISAGREED WITH THE WAY THAT THE
COURT APPLIED THE SECOND
AMENDMENT IN THAT CASE.
BECAUSE WHAT THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA WAS TRYING TO DO WAS TO
PROTECT TODDLERS FROM GUNS.
AND SO THEY WANTED PEOPLE WITH
GUNS TO SAFELY STORE THEM.
AND THE COURT DIDN'T ACCEPT THAT
REASONABLE REGULATION, BUT THEY
HAVE ACCEPTED MANY OTHERS.
SO I SEE NO CONFLICT BETWEEN
SAVING PEOPLE'S LIVES AND
DEFENDING THE SECOND AMENDMENT.
>> LET ME BRING MR. TRUMP IN
HERE.
THE BIPARTISAN OPEN DEBATE
COALITION GOT MILLIONS OF VOTES
ON QUESTIONS TO ASK HERE, AND
THIS WAS IN FACT ONE OF THE TOP
QUESTIONS THAT THEY GOT.
HOW WILL YOU ENSURE THE SECOND
AMENDMENT IS PROTECTED?
YOU JUST HEARD SECRETARY
CLINTON'S ANSWER.
DOES SHE PERSUADE YOU THAT WHILE
YOU MAY DISAGREE ON REGULATION,
THAT IN FACT SHE SUPPORTS A
SECOND AMENDMENT RIGHT TO BEAR
ARMS?
>> WELL, THE D.C. VERSUS HELLER
DECISION WAS VERY STRONGLY AND
SHE WAS EXTREMELY ANGRY ABOUT
IT.
I WATCHED.
SHE WAS VERY, VERY ANGRY WHEN
UPHELD AND JUSTICE SCALIA WAS SO
INVOLVED.
IT WAS A WELL-CRAFTED DECISION.
BUT HILLARY WAS EXTREMELY UPSET.
EXTREMELY ANGRY AND PEOPLE THAT
BELIEVE IN THE SECOND AMENDMENT
AND BELIEVE IN IT VERY STRONGLY
WERE VERY UPSET WITH WHAT SHE
HAD TO SAY.
>> WELL, LET ME BRING IN
SECRETARY CLINTON, WERE YOU
EXTREMELY UPSET?
>> WELL, I WAS UPSET BECAUSE
UNFORTUNATELY, DOZENS OF
TODDLERS INJURE THEMSELVES, EVEN
KILL PEOPLE WITH GUNS BECAUSE
UNFORTUNATELY, NOT EVERYONE WHO
HAS LOADED GUNS IN THEIR HOMES
TAKES APPROPRIATE PRECAUTIONS.
BUT THERE'S NO DOUBT THAT I
RESPECT THE SECOND AMENDMENT,
THAT I ALSO BELIEVE THERE'S AN
INDIVIDUAL RIGHT TO BEAR
ARRANGES.
THAT NOT IN CONFLICT WITH
SENSIBLE, COMMON SENSE
REGULATION AND, YOU KNOW, LOOK,
I UNDERSTAND THAT DONALD'S BEEN
STRONGLY SUPPORTED BY THE NRA,
THE GUN LOBBY'S ON HIS SIDE.
THEY'RE RUNNING MILLION OF
DOLLARS OF ADS AGAINST ME AND I
REGRET THAT WHAT I WOULD LIKE TO
SEE IS FOR PEOPLE TO COME
TOGETHER AND SAY, OF COURSE
WE'RE GOING TO PROTECT AND
DEFEND THE SECOND AMENDMENT.
BUT WE'RE GOING TO DO IT IN A
WAY THAT TRIES TO SAVE SOME OF
THESE 33,000 LIVES THAT WE LOSE
EVERY YEAR.
>> LET ME BRING MR. TRUMP BACK
INTO THIS.
IN FACT, YOU OPPOSE ANY LIMITS
ON ASSAULT RIFLES, IN LIMITS ON
HIGH CAPACITY MAGAZINES.
YOU SUPPORT A NATIONAL RIGHT TO
CARRY LAW.
WHY, SIR?
>> WELL, LET ME JUST TELL YOU
BEFORE WE GO ANY FURTHER IN
CHICAGO, WHICH HAS THE TOUGHEST
GUN LAWS IN THE UNITED STATES
PROBABLY YOU COULD SAY BY FAR,
THEY HAVE MORE GUN VIOLENCE THAN
ANY OTHER CITY.
SO WE HAVE THE TOUGHEST LAWS,
AND YOU HAVE TREMENDOUS GUN
VIOLENCE.
I AM A VERY STRONG SUPPORTER OF
THE SECOND AMENDMENT.
I DON'T KNOW IF HILLARY WAS
SAYING IT IN A SARCASTIC MANNER,
BUT I'M PROUD TO HAVE THE
ENDORSEMENT OF THE NRA AND IT'S
THE EARLIEST ENDORSEMENT THEY
EVER GAVE TO ANYBODY RUNNING FOR
PRESIDENT.
WE ARE GOING TO APPOINT
JUSTICES -- THIS IS THE BEST WAY
TO HELP THE SECOND AMENDMENT.
WE ARE GOING TO APPOINT JUSTICES
THAT WILL FEEL VERY STRONGLY
ABOUT THE SECOND AMENDMENT.
THAT WILL NOT DO DAMAGE TO THE
SECOND AMENDMENT.
>> WELL, LET'S PICK UP ON
ANOTHER ISSUE WHICH DIVIDES YOU
AND THE JUSTICES THAT WHOEVER
ENDS UP WINNING THIS ELECTION
APPOINTS COULD HAVE A DRAMATIC
EFFECT THERE AND THAT'S THE
ISSUE OF ABORTION.
>> RIGHT.
>> MR. TRUMP, YOU'RE PRO-LIFE.
I WANT TO ASK YOU SPECIFICALLY,
DO YOU WANT THE COURT AND
INCLUDING THE JUSTICES THAT YOU
WILL NAME TO OVERTURN ROE VS.
WADE WHICH INCLUDES IN FACT
STATES A WOMAN'S RIGHT TO
ABORTION?
>> WELL, IF THAT WOULD HAPPEN,
BECAUSE I AM PRO LIFE, I WILL BE
APPOINTING PRO LIFE JUDGES, I
WOULD THINK THAT THAT WILL GO
BACK TO THE INDIVIDUAL STATES.
>> BUT I'M ASKING YOU
SPECIFICALLY, WOULD YOU --
>> IF THEY OVERTURNED IT WILL GO
BACK TO THE INDIVIDUAL STATES.
>> DO YOU WANT TO SEE THE COURT
TO OVERTURN -- YOU WANT TO SEE
THE COURT PROTECT THE SECOND
AMENDMENT.
DO YOU WANT THE COURT TO
OVERTURN ROE VS. WADE?
>> IF WE PUT ANOTHER TWO OR
THREE JUSTICE ON THAT'S GOING --
THAT'S WHAT WILL HAPPEN.
AND THAT'LL HAPPEN AUTOMATICALLY
IN MY OPINION BECAUSE I AM
PUTTING PRO LIFE JUSTICES ON THE
COURT.
I WILL SAY THIS.
IT WILL GO BACK TO THE STATES
AND THE STATES WILL THEN MAKE A
DETERMINATION.
>> SECRETARY CLINTON?
>> WELL, I STRONGLY SUPPORT ROE
VS. WADE, WHICH GUARANTEES A
CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHT TO A WOMAN
TO MAKE THE MOST INTIMATE, MOST
DIFFICULT IN MANY CASES
DECISIONS ABOUT HER HEALTH CARE
THAT ONE CAN IMAGINE.
AND IN THIS CASE, IT'S NOT ONLY
ABOUT ROE VS. WADE.
IT IS ABOUT WHAT'S HAPPENING
RIGHT NOW IN AMERICA.
SO MANY STATES ARE PUTTING VERY
STRINGENT REGULATIONS ON WOMEN
THAT BLOCK THEM FROM EXERCISING
THAT CHOICE TO THE EXTENT THAT
THEY ARE DEFUNDING PLANNED
PARENTHOOD.
WHICH OF COURSE PROVIDES ALL
KINDS OF CANCER SCREENINGS AND
OTHER BENEFITS FOR WOMEN IN OUR
COUNTRY.
DONALD HAS SAID HE'S IN FAVOR OF
DEFUNDING PLANNED PARENTHOOD AND
HE SUPPORTED SHUTTING THE
GOVERNMENT DOWN TO DEFUND
PLANNED PARENTHOOD.
I WILL DEFEND PLANNED
PARENTHOOD.
I WILL DEFEND ROE VS. WADE AND I
WILL DEFEND WOMEN'S RIGHTS TO
MAKE THEIR OWN HEALTH CARE
DECISIONS AND WE HAVE COME TOO
FAR TO HAVE THAT TURNED BACK NOW
AND INDEED, HE SAID WOMEN SHOULD
BE PUNISHED.
THAT THERE SHOULD BE SOME FORM
OF PUNISHMENT FOR WOMEN WHO
OBTAIN ABORTIONS AND I COULD
JUST NOT BE MORE OPPOSED TO THAT
KIND OF THINKING.
>> I'M GOING TO GIVE YOU A
CHANCE TO RESPOND, BUT I WANT TO
ASK YOU, SECRETARY CLINTON, I
WANT TO EXPLORE HOW FAR YOU
BELIEVE THE RIGHT TO ABORTION
GOES.
YOU HAVE BEEN QUOTED AS SAYING
THAT THE FETUS HAS NO
CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHTS.
YOU ALSO VOTED AGAINST A BAN ON
LATE-TERM PARTIAL BIRTH
ABORTIONS.
WHY?
>> BECAUSE ROE VS. WADE VERY
CLEARLY SETS OUT THAT THERE CAN
BE REGULATIONS ON ABORTION SO
LONG AS THE LIFE AND THE HEALTH
OF THE MOTHER ARE TAKEN INTO
ACCOUNT.
AND WHEN I VOTED AS A SENATOR, I
DID NOT THINK THAT THAT WAS THE
CASE.
THE KINDS OF CASES THAT FALL AT
THE END OF PREGNANCY ARE OFTEN
THE MOST HEART BREAKING, PAINFUL
DECISIONS FOR FAMILIES TO MAKE.
I HAVE MET WITH WOMEN WHO TOWARD
THE END OF THEIR PREGNANCY GET
THE WORST NEWS ONE COULD GET.
THAT THEIR HEALTH IS IN JEOPARDY
IF THEY CONTINUE TO CARRY TO
TERM OR THAT SOMETHING TERRIBLE
HAS HAPPENED OR JUST BEEN
DISCOVERED ABOUT THE PREGNANCY.
I DO NOT THINK THE UNITED STATES
GOVERNMENT SHOULD BE STEPPING IN
AND MAKING THOSE MOST PERSONAL
OF DECISIONS.
SO YOU CAN REGULATE IF YOU ARE
DOING SO WITH THE LIFE AND THE
HEALTH OF THE MOTHER TAKEN INTO
ACCOUNT.
>> MR. TRUMP, YOUR REACTION, AND
PARTICULARLY ON THIS ISSUE OF
LATE TERM PARTIAL BIRTH
ABORTIONS.
>> I THINK IT'S TERRIBLE IF YOU
DO WITH WHAT HILLARY IS SAYING,
IN THE NINTH MONTH YOU CAN TAKE
THE BABY AND RIP THE BABY OUT OF
THE WOMB OF THE MOTHER.
JUST PRIOR TO THE BIRTH OF THE
BABY.
NOW, YOU CAN SAY THAT THAT'S
OKAY.
AND HILLARY CAN SAY THAT THAT'S
BUT IT'S NOT OKAY WITH ME.
OKAY.
BECAUSE BASED ON WHAT SHE IS
BUT IT'S NOT OKAY WITH ME.
SAYING AND BASED ON WHERE SHE'S
BECAUSE BASED ON WHAT SHE IS
GOING AND WHERE SHE'S BEEN, YOU
SAYING AND BASED ON WHERE SHE'S
CAN TAKE THE BABY AND RIP THE
GOING AND WHERE SHE'S BEEN, YOU
BABY OUT OF THE WOMB.
CAN TAKE THE BABY AND RIP THE
IN THE NINTH MONTH.
BABY OUT OF THE WOMB.
ON THE FINAL DAY.
IN THE NINTH MONTH.
AND THAT'S NOT ACCEPTABLE.
ON THE FINAL DAY.
>> WELL, THAT IS NOT WHAT
AND THAT'S NOT ACCEPTABLE.
HAPPENS IN THESE CASES AND USING
>> WELL, THAT IS NOT WHAT
THAT KIND OF SCARE RHETORIC IS
HAPPENS IN THESE CASES AND USING
JUST TERRIBLY UNFORTUNATE.
THAT KIND OF SCARE RHETORIC IS
YOU SHOULD MEET WITH SOME OF THE
JUST TERRIBLY UNFORTUNATE.
WOMEN THAT I HAVE MET WITH.
YOU SHOULD MEET WITH SOME OF THE
WOMEN I HAVE KNOWN OVER THE
WOMEN THAT I HAVE MET WITH.
COURSE OF MY LIFE.
WOMEN I HAVE KNOWN OVER THE
THIS IS ONE OF THE WORST
COURSE OF MY LIFE.
POSSIBLE CHOICES THAT ANY WOMAN
THIS IS ONE OF THE WORST
AND HER FAMILY HAS TO MAKE.
POSSIBLE CHOICES THAT ANY WOMAN
AND I DO NOT BELIEVE THE
AND HER FAMILY HAS TO MAKE.
GOVERNMENT SHOULD BE MAKING IT.
AND I DO NOT BELIEVE THE
YOU KNOW, I HAVE HAD THE GREAT
GOVERNMENT SHOULD BE MAKING IT.
HONOR OF TRAVELING ACROSS THE
YOU KNOW, I HAVE HAD THE GREAT
WORLD ON BEHALF OF OUR COUNTRY.
HONOR OF TRAVELING ACROSS THE
I HAVE BEEN TO COUNTRIES WHERE
WORLD ON BEHALF OF OUR COUNTRY.
GOVERNMENTS EITHER FORCED WOMEN
I HAVE BEEN TO COUNTRIES WHERE
TO HAVE ABORTIONS LIKE THEY USED
GOVERNMENTS EITHER FORCED WOMEN
TO DO IN CHINA.
TO HAVE ABORTIONS LIKE THEY USED
OR FORCED WOMEN TO BEAR CHILDREN
TO DO IN CHINA.
LIKE THEY USED TO DO IN ROMANIA.
OR FORCED WOMEN TO BEAR CHILDREN
AND I CAN TELL YOU THE
LIKE THEY USED TO DO IN ROMANIA.
GOVERNMENT HAS NO BUSINESS IN
AND I CAN TELL YOU THE
THAT DECISION -- IN THE
GOVERNMENT HAS NO BUSINESS IN
DECISIONS THAT WOMEN MAKE WITH
THAT DECISION -- IN THE
THEIR FAMILIES IN ACCORDANCE
DECISIONS THAT WOMEN MAKE WITH
WITH THEIR FAITH, WITH MEDICAL
THEIR FAMILIES IN ACCORDANCE
ADVICE.
WITH THEIR FAITH, WITH MEDICAL
I WILL STAND UP FOR THAT RIGHT.
ADVICE.
>> ALL RIGHT.
I WILL STAND UP FOR THAT RIGHT.
JUST BRIEFLY, I WANT TO MOVE
>> ALL RIGHT.
ON --
JUST BRIEFLY, I WANT TO MOVE
>> HONESTLY, NOBODY HAS BUSINESS
ON --
DOING WHAT I JUST SAID, DOING
>> HONESTLY, NOBODY HAS BUSINESS
THAT AS LATE AS ONE OR TWO OR
DOING WHAT I JUST SAID, DOING
THREE OR FOUR DAYS PRIOR TO
THAT AS LATE AS ONE OR TWO OR
BIRTH.
THREE OR FOUR DAYS PRIOR TO
NOBODY HAS THAT.
BIRTH.
>> ALL RIGHT.
NOBODY HAS THAT.
LET'S MOVE ON TO THE SUBJECT OF
>> ALL RIGHT.
IMMIGRATION.
LET'S MOVE ON TO THE SUBJECT OF
AND THERE IS ALMOST NO ISSUE
IMMIGRATION.
THAT SEPARATES THE TWO OF YOU
AND THERE IS ALMOST NO ISSUE
MORE THAN THE ISSUE OF
THAT SEPARATES THE TWO OF YOU
IMMIGRATION.
MORE THAN THE ISSUE OF
ACTUALLY, THERE ARE A LOT OF
IMMIGRATION.
ISSUES THAT SEPARATE THE TWO OF
ACTUALLY, THERE ARE A LOT OF
YOU.
ISSUES THAT SEPARATE THE TWO OF
MR. TRUMP, YOU WANT TO BUILD A
YOU.
WALL.
MR. TRUMP, YOU WANT TO BUILD A
SECRETARY CLINTON, YOU HAVE
WALL.
OFFERED NO SPECIFIC PLAN FOR HOW
SECRETARY CLINTON, YOU HAVE
YOU WANT TO SECURE OUR SOUTHERN
OFFERED NO SPECIFIC PLAN FOR HOW
BORDER.
YOU WANT TO SECURE OUR SOUTHERN
MR. TRUMP, YOU ARE CALLING FOR
BORDER.
MAJOR DEPORTATIONS.
MR. TRUMP, YOU ARE CALLING FOR
SECRETARY CLINTON, YOU SAY THAT
MAJOR DEPORTATIONS.
WITHIN YOUR FIRST 100 DAYS OF
SECRETARY CLINTON, YOU SAY THAT
PRESIDENT YOU'RE GOING TO OFFER
WITHIN YOUR FIRST 100 DAYS OF
A PACKAGE THAT INCLUDES A
PRESIDENT YOU'RE GOING TO OFFER
PATHWAY TO CITIZENSHIP.
A PACKAGE THAT INCLUDES A
THE QUESTION REALLY IS WHY ARE
PATHWAY TO CITIZENSHIP.
YOU RIGHT AND YOUR OPPONENT
THE QUESTION REALLY IS WHY ARE
WRONG?
YOU RIGHT AND YOUR OPPONENT
MR. TRUMP, YOU GO FIRST IN THIS
WRONG?
SEGMENT.
MR. TRUMP, YOU GO FIRST IN THIS
YOU HAVE TWO MINUTES.
SEGMENT.
>> SHE WANTS TO GIVE AMNESTY
YOU HAVE TWO MINUTES.
WHICH IS DISASTER AND VERY
>> SHE WANTS TO GIVE AMNESTY
UNFAIR TO THOSE WAITING IN LINE
WHICH IS DISASTER AND VERY
FOR MANY YEARS.
UNFAIR TO THOSE WAITING IN LINE
WE NEED STRONG BORDERS.
FOR MANY YEARS.
WE HAVE FOUR MOTHERS IN THE
WE NEED STRONG BORDERS.
AUDIENCE TONIGHT -- I MEAN,
WE HAVE FOUR MOTHERS IN THE
THESE ARE UNBELIEVABLE PEOPLE
AUDIENCE TONIGHT -- I MEAN,
THAT I HAVE GOTTEN TO KNOW OVER
THESE ARE UNBELIEVABLE PEOPLE
A PERIOD OF YEARS WHOSE CHILDREN
THAT I HAVE GOTTEN TO KNOW OVER
HAVE BEEN KILLED, BRUTALLY
A PERIOD OF YEARS WHOSE CHILDREN
KILLED BY PEOPLE THAT CAME INTO
HAVE BEEN KILLED, BRUTALLY
THE COUNTRY ILLEGALLY.
KILLED BY PEOPLE THAT CAME INTO
YOU HAVE THOUSANDS OF MOTHERS
THE COUNTRY ILLEGALLY.
AND FATHERS AND RELATIVES ALL
YOU HAVE THOUSANDS OF MOTHERS
OVER THE COUNTRY, THEY'RE COMING
AND FATHERS AND RELATIVES ALL
IN ILLEGALLY.
OVER THE COUNTRY, THEY'RE COMING
DRUGS ARE POURING IN THROUGH THE
IN ILLEGALLY.
BORDER.
DRUGS ARE POURING IN THROUGH THE
WE HAVE NO COUNTRY IF WE HAVE NO
BORDER.
HILLARY WANTS TO GIVE AMNESTY.
SHE WANTS TO HAVE OPEN BORDERS.
THE BORDERS -- THE BORDER PATROL
AGENT, 16,500 PLUS I.C.E. LAST
WEEK, ENDORSED ME.
FIRST TIME THEY EVER ENDORSED A
CANDIDATE.
IT MEANS THEIR JOB IS TOUGHER
BUT THEY KNOW WHAT'S GOING ON.
THEY KNOW IT BETTER THAN
ANYBODY.
THEY WANT STRONG BORDERS.
THEY FEEL WE HAVE TO HAVE STRONG
BORDERS.
I WAS UP IN NEW HAMPSHIRE THE
OTHER DAY, THE BIGGEST COMPLAINT
THEY HAVE -- IT'S WITH ALL OF
THE PROBLEMS GOING ON IN THE
WORLD, MANY OF THE PROBLEMS
CAUSED BY HILLARY CLINTON AND BY
BARACK OBAMA.
ALL OF THE PROBLEMS SINGLE
BIGGEST PROBLEM IS HEROIN THAT
POURS ACROSS OUR SOUTHERN BORDER
AND IT'S DESTROYING THEIR YOUTH.
POISONING THE BLOOD OF THEIR
YOUTH AND PLENTY OF OTHER
PEOPLE.
WE HAVE TO HAVE STRONG BORDERS.
WE HAVE TO KEEP THE DRUGS OUT OF
OUR COUNTRY.
WE ARE -- RIGHT NOW WE'RE
GETTING THE DRUGS, THEY'RE
GETTING THE CASH.
WE NEED STRONG BORDERS.
WE NEED ABSOLUTE -- WE CANNOT
GIVE AMNESTY.
NOW, I WANT TO BUILD THE WALL.
WE NEED THE WALL.
AND THE BORDER PATROL, I.C.E.,
THEY ALL WANT THE WALL.
WE STOP THE DRUGS, WE SHORE UP
THE BORDER.
ONE OF MY FIRST ACTS WILL BE TO
GET ALL OF THE DRUG LORDS, ALL
OF THE BAD ONES, WE HAVE BAD,
BAD PEOPLE IN THIS COUNTRY THAT
HAVE TO GO OUT.
WE'RE GOING TO GET THEM OUT,
WE'RE GOING TO SECURE THE
BORDER.
AND ONCE THE BORDER IS SECURED
AT A LATER DATE WE'LL MAKE A
DETERMINATION AS TO THE REST.
BUT WE HAVE SOME BAD HOMBRES
HERE AND WE'RE GOING TO GET THEM
OUT.
>> MR. TRUMP, THANK YOU.
SAME QUESTION TO YOU, SECRETARY
CLINTON.
BASICALLY, WHY ARE YOU RIGHT,
MR. TRUMP IS WRONG?
>> WELL, AS HE WAS TALKING I WAS
THINKING ABOUT A YOUNG GIRL I
MET HERE IN LAS VEGAS, CARLA,
WHO IS VERY WORRIED THAT HER
PARENTS MIGHT BE DEPORTED
BECAUSE SHE WAS BORN IN THIS
COUNTRY.
BUT THEY WERE NOT.
THEY WORK HARD, THEY DO
EVERYTHING THEY CAN TO GIVE HER
A GOOD LIFE.
AND YOU'RE RIGHT.
I DON'T WANT TO RIP FAMILIES
APART.
I DON'T WANT TO BE SENDING
PARENTS AWAY FROM CHILDREN.
I DON'T WANT TO SEE THE
DEPORTATION FORCE THAT DONALD
HAS TALKED ABOUT IN ACTION IN
OUR COUNTRY.
WE HAVE 11 MILLION UNDOCUMENTED
PEOPLE.
THEY HAVE 4 MILLION AMERICAN
CITIZEN CHILDREN.
15 MILLION PEOPLE.
HE SAID AS RECENTLY AS A FEW
WEEKS AGO IN PHOENIX THAT EVERY
UNDOCUMENTED PERSON WOULD BE
SUBJECT TO DEPORTATION.
NOW, HERE'S WHAT THAT MEANS.
IT MEANS YOU WOULD HAVE TO HAVE
A MASSIVE LAW ENFORCEMENT
PRESENCE WHERE LAW ENFORCEMENT
OFFICERS WOULD BE GOING SCHOOL
TO SCHOOL, HOME TO HOME,
BUSINESS TO BUSINESS, ROUNDING
UP PEOPLE WHO ARE UNDOCUMENTED.
AND WE WOULD THEN HAVE TO PUT
THEM ON TRAINS, ON BUSES TO GET
THEM OUT OF OUR COUNTRY.
I THINK THAT IS AN IDEA THAT IS
NOT IN KEEPING WITH WHO WE ARE
AS A NATION.
I THINK IT'S AN IDEA THAT WOULD
RIP OUR COUNTRY APART.
I HAVE BEEN FOR BORDER SECURITY
FOR YEARS.
I VOTED FOR BORDER SECURITY IN
THE UNITED STATES SENATE.
AND MY COMPREHENSIVE IMMIGRATION
REFORM PLAN OF COURSE INCLUDES
BORDER SECURITY.
BUT I WANT TO PUT OUR RESOURCES
WHERE I THINK THEY'RE MOST
NEEDED.
GETTING RID OF ANY VIOLENT
PERSON, ANYBODY WHO SHOULD BE
DEPORTED, WE SHOULD DEPORT THEM.
WHEN IT COMES TO THE WALL THAT
DONALD TALKS ABOUT BUILDING HE
WENT TO MEXICO, HE HAD A MEETING
WITH THE MEXICAN PRESIDENT.
DIDN'T EVEN RAISE IT.
HE CHOKED.
AND THEN GOT INTO A TWITTER WAR
BECAUSE THE MEXICAN PRESIDENT
SAID WE'RE NOT PAYING FOR THAT
WALL.
SO I THINK WE ARE BOTH A NATION
OF IMMIGRANTS AND WE ARE A
NATION OF LAWS AND THAT WE CAN
ACT ACCORDINGLY AND THAT'S WHY
I'M INTRODUCING COMPREHENSIVE
IMMIGRATION REFORM WITHIN THE
FIRST 100 DAYS WITH THE PATH TO
CITIZENSHIP.
>> THANK YOU, SECRETARY CLINTON.
I WANT TO FOLLOW --
>> CHRIS, I THINK IT'S -- I
THINK I SHOULD RESPOND TO THAT
FIRST OF ALL, I HAD A VERY GOOD
MEETING WITH THE PRESIDENT OF
MEXICO.
VERY NICE MAN.
WE WILL BE DOING VERY MUCH
BETTER WITH MEXICO ON TRADE
DEAL.
THE NAFTA DEALS SIGNED BY HER
HUSBAND IS ONE OF THE WORST OF
ANY KIND, SIGNED BY ANYBODY,
IT'S A DISASTER.
HILLARY CLINTON WANTED THE WALL.
HILLARY CLINTON FOUGHT FOR THE
WALL IN 2006.
OR THEREABOUTS.
NOW, SHE NEVER GETS ANYTHING
DONE SO NATURALLY THE WALL
WASN'T BUILT, BUT HILLARY
CLINTON WANTED THE WALL.
>> WELL, LET ME -- SIR --
>> WE ARE A COUNTRY OF LAWS.
BY THE WAY --
>> NO, WAIT, I WANT TO HEAR
FROM -- I'D LIKE TO HEAR FROM
SECRETARY CLINTON.
>> I VOTED FOR BORDER SECURITY
AND THERE ARE --
>> AND THE WALL.
>> THERE ARE SOME LIMITED PLACES
WHERE THAT WAS APPROPRIATE.
THERE'S ALSO NECESSARILY GOING
TO BE NEW TECHNOLOGY AND HOW
BEST TO DEPLOY THAT.
BUT IT IS CLEAR WHEN YOU LOOK AT
WHAT DONALD HAS BEEN PROPOSING,
HE STARTED HIS CAMPAIGN BASHING
IMMIGRANTS.
CALLING MEXICAN IMMIGRANTS
RAPISTS CRIMINALS AND DRUG
DEALERS, THAT HE HAS A VERY
DIFFERENT VIEW ABOUT WHAT WE
SHOULD DO TO DEAL WITH
IMMIGRANTS.
NOW, WHAT I AM ALSO ARGUING IS
THAT BRINGING UNDOCUMENTED
IMMIGRANTS OUT FROM THE SHADOWS,
PUTTING THEM INTO THE FORMAL
ECONOMY WILL BE GOOD BECAUSE
THEN EMPLOYERS CAN'T EXPLOIT
THEM AND UNDERCUT AMERICANS'
WAGES.
DONALD USED UNDOCUMENTED LABOR
TO BUILD THE TRUMP TOWERMENT HE
UNDERPAID WORKERS AND WHEN THEY
COMPLAIN HE BASICALLY SAID YOU
COMPLAIN, I'LL GET YOU DEPORTED.
I WANT TO GET EVERYBODY OUT OF
THE SHADOWS.
GET THE ECONOMY WORKING.
AND NOT LET EMPLOYERS LIKE
DONALD EXPLOIT UNDOCUMENTED
WORKERS WHICH HURTS THEM, BUT
ALSO HURTS AMERICAN WORKERS.
>> MR. TRUMP?
>> PRESIDENT OBAMA HAS MOVED
MILLIONS OF PEOPLE OUT.
NOBODY KNOWS ABOUT IT, NOBODY
TALKS ABOUT IT, BUT UNDER OBAMA
MILLIONS HAVE BEEN MOVED OUT OF
THIS COUNTRY, HAS BEEN DEPORTED.
SHE DOESN'T WANT TO SAY THAT,
BUT THAT'S WHAT HAPPENED, AND
THAT'S HAPPENED BIG LEAGUE.
AS FAR AS MOVING THESE PEOPLE
OUT AND MOVING WE -- WE EITHER
HAVE A COUNTRY OR WE DON'T.
WE'RE A COUNTRY OF LAWS.
WE EITHER HAVE A BORDER OR WE
DON'T.
YOU CAN COME BACK IN AND YOU CAN
BECOME A CITIZEN.
BUT IT'S UNFAIR.
WE HAVE MILLIONS OF PEOPLE WHO
DID IT THE RIGHT WAY.
THEY'RE ON LINE, WAITING.
WE'RE GOING TO SPEED UP THE
PROCESS BIG LEAGUE, BECAUSE IT'S
INEFFICIENT.
THEY'RE WAITING IN LINE TO
BECOME CITIZENS.
VERY UNFAIR THAT SOMEBODY RUNS
ACROSS THE BORDER BECOMES A
CITIZEN UNDER HER PLAN YOU HAVE
OPEN BORDERS.
YOU WOULD HAVE A DISASTER ON
TRADE AND YOU WOULD HAVE A
DISASTER WITH YOUR OPEN BORDERS.
BUT PRESIDENT OBAMA HAS DEPORTED
MILLIONS AND MILLIONS OF PEOPLE
JUST THE WAY IT IS.
>> SECRETARY CLINTON --
>> WE WILL NOT HAVE OPEN
BORDERS --
>> SECRETARY CLINTON --
>> THAT'S A RANK
MISCHARACTERIZATION.
WE'LL HAVE SECURE BORDERS AND
WE'LL HAVE PERFORM.
THIS USED TO BE A BIPARTISAN
ISSUE.
RONALD REAGAN WAS THE LAST
PRESIDENT -- TO SIGN IMMIGRATION
REFORM AND GEORGE W. BUSH
SUPPORTED IT AS WELL.
>> SECRETARY CLINTON, I WANT TO
CLEAR UP YOUR POSITION ON THIS
ISSUE BECAUSE IN A SPEECH YOU
GAVE TO A BRAZILIAN BANK FOR
WHICH YOU WERE PAID $225,000 WE
HAVE LEARNED FROM THE WIKILEAKS
THAT YOU SAID THIS AND I WANT TO
QUOTE.
MY DREAM IS A HEMISPHERIC COMMON
MARKET WITH OPEN TRADE AND OPEN
BORDERS, SO --
>> THANK YOU.
>> THAT'S THE QUESTION, PLEASE
QUIET, EVERYBODY.
IS THAT YOUR DREAM, OPEN
BORDERS?
>> WELL, IF YOU WENT ON THE READ
THE REST OF THE SENTENCE I WAS
TALKING ABOUT ENERGY.
YOU KNOW, WE TRADE MORE ENERGY
WITH OUR NEIGHBORS THAN WE TRADE
WITH THE REST OF THE WORLD
COMBINED.
I DO WANT US TO HAVE A -- AN
ELECTRIC GRID AND AN ENERGY
SYSTEM THAT CROSSES BORDERS.
I THINK THAT WOULD BE A GREAT
BENEFIT TO US.
BUT YOU ARE VERY CLEARLY QUOTING
FROM WIKILEAKS AND WHAT'S REALLY
IMPORTANT ABOUT WIKILEAKS IS
THAT THE RUSSIAN GOVERNMENT HAS
ENGAGED IN ESPIONAGE AGAINST
AMERICANS.
THEY HAVE HACKED AMERICAN
WEBSITES, AMERICAN ACCOUNTS OF
PRIVATE PEOPLE, OF INSTITUTIONS.
THEN THEY HAVE GIVEN THAT
INFORMATION TO WIKILEAKS FOR THE
PURPOSE OF PUTTING IT ON THE
INTERNET.
THIS HAS COME FROM THE HIGHEST
LEVELS OF THE RUSSIAN
GOVERNMENT.
CLEARLY, FROM PUTIN HIMSELF, IN
AN EFFORT AS 17 OF OUR
INTELLIGENCE AGENCIES HAVE
CONFIRMED TO INFLUENCE OUR
ELECTION.
SO I ACTUALLY THINK THE MOST
IMPORTANT QUESTION OF THIS
EVENING, CHRIS, IS FINALLY, WILL
DONALD TRUMP ADMIT AND CONDEMN
THAT THE RUSSIANS ARE DOING
THIS?
AND MAKE IT CLEAR THAT HE WILL
NOT HAVE THE HELP OF PUTIN IN IN
ELECTION, THAT HE REJECTS
RUSSIAN ESPIONAGE AGAINST
AMERICANS, WHICH HE ACTUALLY
ENCOURAGED IN THE PAST.
THOSE ARE THE QUESTIONS WE NEED
ANSWERED.
WE'D NEVER HAD ANYTHING LIKE
THIS HAPPEN IN ANY OF OUR
ELECTIONS BEFORE.
>> THAT WAS A GREAT PIVOT OFF
THE FACT THAT SHE WANTS OPEN
BORDER, HOW DID WE GET ON TO
PUTIN?
>> HOLD ON -- WAIT.
HOLD ON, FOLKS.
BECAUSE WE -- THIS GOING TO END
UP GETTING OUT OF CONTROL.
LET'S TRY TO KEEP IT QUIET SO --
FOR THE CANDIDATES AND FOR THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE.
>> JUST TO FINISH ON THE
BORDERS, SHE WANTS OPEN BORDERS.
PEOPLE ARE GOING TO POUR INTO
OUR COUNTRY.
PEOPLE ARE GOING TO COME IN FROM
SYRIA.
SHE WANTS 550% MORE PEOPLE THAN
BARACK OBAMA AND HE HAS
THOUSANDS AND THOUSANDS OF
PEOPLE.
THEY HAVE NO IDEA WHERE THEY
COME FROM.
YOU SEE, WE ARE GOING TO STOP
RADICAL ISLAMIC TERRORISM IN
THIS COUNTRY.
SHE WON'T EVEN MENTION THE WORDS
AND NEITHER WILL PRESIDENT
OBAMA.
SO I JUST WANT TO TELL YOU, SHE
WANTS OPEN BORDERS NOW.
WE CAN TALK ABOUT PUTIN.
I DON'T KNOW PUTIN.
HE SAID NICE THINGS ABOUT ME.
IF WE GOT ALONG WELL, THAT WOULD
BE GOOD.
IF RUSSIA AND THE UNITED STATES
GOT ALONG WELL AND WENT AFTER
ISIS, THAT WOULD BE GOOD.
HE HAS NO RESPECT FOR HER.
HE HAS NO RESPECT FOR OUR
PRESIDENT.
AND I'LL TELL YOU WHAT, WE'RE IN
SERIOUS TROUBLE BECAUSE WE HAVE
A COUNTRY WITH TREMENDOUS
NUMBERS OF NUCLEAR WARHEADS,
1,800 BY THE WAY, WHERE THEY
EXPANDED AND WE DIDN'T.
1,800 NUCLEAR WARHEADS AND SHE'S
PLAYING CHICKEN.
LOOK, PUTIN -- FOR EVERYTHING I
SEE, HAS NO RESPECT FOR THIS
PERSON.
>> WELL, THAT'S A BECAUSE HE'D
RATHER HAVE A PUPPET AS
PRESIDENT.
>> NO PUPPET.
NO PUPPET.
>> IT'S PRETTY CLEAR --
>> YOU'RE THE PUPPET.
>> IT'S PRETTY CLEAR THAT THE
RUSSIANS HAVE ENGAGED IN CYBER
ATTACKS AGAINST THE UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA, THAT YOU
ENCOURAGED ESPIONAGE AGAINST OUR
PEOPLE.
THAT YOU ARE WILLING TO SPOUT
THE PUTIN LINE, SIGN UP FOR HIS
WISH LIST, BREAK UP NATO, DO
WHATEVER HE WANTS TO DO.
AND THAT YOU CONTINUE TO GET
HELP FROM HIM BECAUSE HE HAS A
VERY CLEAR FAVORITE IN THIS
RACE.
SO I THINK THAT THIS IS SUCH AN
UNPRECEDENTED SITUATION.
WE NEVER HAD A FOREIGN
GOVERNMENT TRYING TO INTERFERE
IN OUR ELECTION.
WE HAVE 17 -- 17 INTELLIGENCE
AGENCIES, CIVILIAN AND MILITARY,
WHO HAVE ALL CONCLUDED THAT
THESE ESPIONAGE ATTACKS, THESE
CYBER ATTACKS, COME FROM THE
HIGHEST LEVELS OF THE KREMLIN.
AND THEY ARE DESIGNED TO
INFLUENCE OUR ELECTION.
I FIND THAT DEEPLY DISTURBING.
AND I THINK IT'S TIME --
>> SHE HAS NO IDEA WHETHER IT'S
RUSSIA, CHINA OR ANYBODY ELSE.
>> I'M NOT QUOTING MYSELF.
I'M QUOTING --
>> YOU HAVE NO IDEA.
>> 17 -- DO YOU DOUBT 17
MILITARY --
>> OUR COUNTRY HAS NO IDEA.
>> WELL, HE'D RATHER BELIEVE
VLADIMIR PUTIN THAN THE MILITARY
AND CIVILIAN INTELLIGENCE
PROFESSIONALS WHO ARE SWORN TO
PROTECT US.
I FIND THAT JUST ABSOLUTELY --
>> SHE DOESN'T LIKE PUTIN
BECAUSE PUTIN USE OUTSMARTED HER
AT EVERY STEP OF THE WAY.
EXCUSE ME.
HE'S OUTSMARTED HER IN SYRIA.
OUTSMARTED --
>> I DO GET TO ASK SOME
QUESTIONS.
>> YES, THAT'S FINE.
>> I WANT TO ASK YOU THIS DIRECT
QUESTION.
THE TOP NATIONAL SECURITY
OFFICIALS OF THIS COUNTRY DO
BELIEVE THAT RUSSIA HAS BEEN
BEHIND THESE HACKS.
EVEN IF YOU DON'T KNOW FOR SURE
WHETHER THEY ARE, DO YOU CONDEMN
ANY INTERFERENCE BY RUSSIA IN
THE AMERICAN ELECTION?
>> BY RUSSIA OR ANYBODY ELSE.
>> YOU CONDEMN THEIR
INTERFERENCE?
>> OF COURSE I CONDEMN.
OF COURSE I -- I DON'T KNOW
PUTIN.
I HAVE NO IDEA.
>> I'M ASKING YOU --
>> I NEVER MET PUTIN.
THIS IS NOT MY BEST FRIEND, BUT
IF THE UNITED STATES GOT ALONG
WITH RUSSIA, WOULDN'T BE SO BAD.
LET ME TELL YOU, PUTIN HAS
OUTSMARTED HER AND OBAMA AT
EVERY SINGLE STEP OF THE WAY.
WHETHER IT'S SYRIA YOU NAME IT.
MISSILES.
TAKE A LOOK AT A THE START-UP
THAT THEY SIGNED.
THE RUSSIANS HAVE SAID ACCORDING
TO MANY REPORTS I CAN'T BELIEVE
THEY ALLOWED US TO DO THIS.
THEY CREATE WARHEADS AND WE
CAN'T.
THE RUSSIANS CAN'T BELIEVE IT.
SHE HAS BEEN OUTSMARTED BY PUTIN
AND ALL YOU HAVE TO DO IS LOOK
AT THE MIDDLE EAST.
THEY HAVE TAKEN OVER.
WE HAVE SPENT $6 TRILLION, THEY
HAVE TAKEN OVER THE MIDDLE EAST.
SHE HAS BEEN OUTSMARTED AND
OUTPLAYED, WORSE THAN ANYBODY I
HAVE EVER SEEN IN ANY GOVERNMENT
WHATSOEVER.
>> WE'RE A LONG WAY AWAY FROM
IMMIGRATION, BUT I'M GOING TO
LET YOU FINISH THIS TOPIC.
YOU HAVE 45 SECONDS.
>> AND SHE ALWAYS WILL BE.
>> I FIND IT IRONIC THAT HE'S
RAISING NUCLEAR WEAPONS.
THIS IS A PERSON WHO HAS BEEN
VERY CAVALIER, EVEN CASUAL ABOUT
THE USE OF NUCLEAR WEAPONS.
>> WRONG.
>> HE'S ADVOCATED MORE COUNTRIES
GETTING THEM.
JAPAN, KOREA, EVEN SAUDI ARABIA.
HE SAID IF WE HAVE THEM, WHY
DON'T WE USE THEM WHICH I THINK
IS TERRIFYING.
THE BOTTOM LINE ON NUCLEAR
WEAPONS IS THAT WHEN THE
PRESIDENT GIVES THE ORDER, IT
MUST BE FOLLOWED.
THERE'S ABOUT FOUR MINUTES
BETWEEN THE ORDER BEING GIVEN
AND THE PEOPLE RESPONSIBLE FOR
LAUNCHING NUCLEAR WEAPONS TO  D
SO.
THAT'S WHY TEN PEOPLE WHO HAVE
HAD THAT AWESOME AUTHORITY AND
THEY SAID THEY WOULD NOT TRUST
DONALD TRUMP WITH THE NUCLEAR
CODES OR HAVE TO HAVE HIS FINGER
ON THE BUTTON.
>> I HAVE 21 ENDORSING ME, 21
CONGRESSIONAL MEDAL OF HONOR
RECIPIENTS.
AS FAR AS JAPAN, AND OTHER
COUNTRIES, WE ARE BEING RIPPED
OFF BY EVERYBODY -- WE'RE
DEFENDING OTHER COUNTRIES.
WE ARE SPENDING A FORTUNE DOING
IT.
THEY HAVE THE BARGAIN OF THE
CENTURY.
ALL I SAID IS WE HAVE TO
RENEGOTIATE THESE AGREEMENTS
BECAUSE OUR COUNTRY CANNOT
AFFORD TO DEFEND SAUDI ARABIA,
JAPAN, GERMANY, SOUTH KOREA AND
MANY OTHER PLACES.
WE CANNOT CONTINUE TO AFFORD --
SHE TOOK THAT AS SAYING, NUCLEAR
WEAPONS.
LOOK, SHE'S BEEN PROVEN TO BE A
LIAR ON SO MANY DIFFERENT WAYS.
THIS IS JUST ANOTHER LIE.
>> WELL, I'M JUST QUOTING YOU
WHEN --
>> THERE'S NO QUOTE.
YOU'RE NOT GOING TO FIND A QUOTE
FROM ME.
>> NUCLEAR COMPETITION IN ASIA,
YOU SAID, YOU KNOW, GO AHEAD,
ENJOY YOURSELVES, FOLKS.
THAT KIND --
>> AND DEFEND YOURSELVES.
>> WELL --
I DIDN'T SAY NUCLEAR.
>> AND DEFEND YOURSELVES.
AND DEFEND YOURSELF.
I DIDN'T SAY NUCLEAR.
>> THE UNITED STATES HAS KEPT
AND DEFEND YOURSELF.
THE PEACE THROUGH OUR ALLIANCES.
>> THE UNITED STATES HAS KEPT
DONALD WANTS TO TEAR UP OUR
THE PEACE THROUGH OUR ALLIANCES.
ALLIANCES.
DONALD WANTS TO TEAR UP OUR
I THINK IT MAKES THE WORLD SAFER
ALLIANCES.
AND FRANKLY IT MAKES THE UNITED
I THINK IT MAKES THE WORLD SAFER
STATES SAFER.
AND FRANKLY IT MAKES THE UNITED
I WOULD WORK WITH OUR ALLIES IN
STATES SAFER.
ASIA, IN EUROPE, IN THE MIDDLE
I WOULD WORK WITH OUR ALLIES IN
EAST AND ELSEWHERE.
ASIA, IN EUROPE, IN THE MIDDLE
THAT'S THE ONLY WAY WE'RE
EAST AND ELSEWHERE.
GOING --
THAT'S THE ONLY WAY WE'RE
>> WE ARE GOING TO MOVE ON TO
GOING --
THE NEXT TOPIC, WHICH IS THE
>> WE ARE GOING TO MOVE ON TO
ECONOMY.
THE NEXT TOPIC, WHICH IS THE
I HOPE WE HANDLE THAT AS WELL AS
ECONOMY.
WE DID IMMIGRATION.
I HOPE WE HANDLE THAT AS WELL AS
YOU ALSO HAVE VERY DIFFERENT
WE DID IMMIGRATION.
IDEAS ABOUT HOW TO GET THE
YOU ALSO HAVE VERY DIFFERENT
ECONOMY GROWING FASTER.
IDEAS ABOUT HOW TO GET THE
SECRETARY CLINTON, IN YOUR PLAN,
ECONOMY GROWING FASTER.
GOVERNMENT PLAYS A BIG ROLE.
SECRETARY CLINTON, IN YOUR PLAN,
YOU SEE MORE GOVERNMENT
GOVERNMENT PLAYS A BIG ROLE.
SPENDING, MORE ENTITLEMENTS,
YOU SEE MORE GOVERNMENT
MORE TAX CREDITS, MORE TAX
SPENDING, MORE ENTITLEMENTS,
PENALTIES.
MORE TAX CREDITS, MORE TAX
MR. TRUMP, YOU WANT TO GET
PENALTIES.
GOVERNMENT OUT WITH LOWER TAXES
MR. TRUMP, YOU WANT TO GET
AND LESS REGULATION.
GOVERNMENT OUT WITH LOWER TAXES
WE'RE GOING TO DRILL DOWN INTO
AND LESS REGULATION.
THIS MORE.
WE'RE GOING TO DRILL DOWN INTO
BUT IN THIS OVERVIEW, PLEASE
THIS MORE.
EXPLAIN TO ME WHY YOU BELIEVE
BUT IN THIS OVERVIEW, PLEASE
THAT YOUR PLAN WILL CREATE MORE
EXPLAIN TO ME WHY YOU BELIEVE
JOBS AND GROWTH FOR THIS COUNTRY
THAT YOUR PLAN WILL CREATE MORE
AND YOUR OPPONENT'S PLAN WILL
JOBS AND GROWTH FOR THIS COUNTRY
NOT.
AND YOUR OPPONENT'S PLAN WILL
IN THIS ROUND, YOU GO FIRST,
NOT.
SECRETARY CLINTON.
IN THIS ROUND, YOU GO FIRST,
>> I THINK WHEN THE MIDDLE CLASS
SECRETARY CLINTON.
THRIVES THE ECONOMY THRIVES.
>> I THINK WHEN THE MIDDLE CLASS
SO I'LL GIVE MIDDLE CLASS
THRIVES THE ECONOMY THRIVES.
FAMILIES MORE OPPORTUNITIES.
SO I'LL GIVE MIDDLE CLASS
I WANT US TO HAVE THE BIGGEST
FAMILIES MORE OPPORTUNITIES.
JOBS PLAN SINCE WORLD WAR II,
I WANT US TO HAVE THE BIGGEST
ADVANCED MANUFACTURING, I THINK
JOBS PLAN SINCE WORLD WAR II,
WE CAN COMPETE WITH HIGH-WAGE
ADVANCED MANUFACTURING, I THINK
COUNTRIES AND I BELIEVE WE
WE CAN COMPETE WITH HIGH-WAGE
SHOULD.
COUNTRIES AND I BELIEVE WE
NEW JOBS AND CLEAN ENERGY, NOT
SHOULD.
ONLY TO FIGHT CLIMATE CHANGE
NEW JOBS AND CLEAN ENERGY, NOT
WHICH IS A SERIOUS PROBLEM BUT
ONLY TO FIGHT CLIMATE CHANGE
TO CREATE NEW OPPORTUNITIES AND
WHICH IS A SERIOUS PROBLEM BUT
NEW BUSINESSES.
TO CREATE NEW OPPORTUNITIES AND
I WANT US TO DO MORE TO HELP
NEW BUSINESSES.
SMALL BUSINESS.
I WANT US TO DO MORE TO HELP
THAT'S WHERE TWO-THIRDS OF THE
SMALL BUSINESS.
NEW JOBS ARE GOING TO COME FROM.
THAT'S WHERE TWO-THIRDS OF THE
I WANT US TO RAISE THE NATIONAL
NEW JOBS ARE GOING TO COME FROM.
MINIMUM WAGE BECAUSE PEOPLE WHO
I WANT US TO RAISE THE NATIONAL
LIVE IN POVERTY SHOULD NOT --
MINIMUM WAGE BECAUSE PEOPLE WHO
WHO WORK FULL-TIME SHOULD NOT
LIVE IN POVERTY SHOULD NOT --
STILL BE IN POVERTY AND I DO
WHO WORK FULL-TIME SHOULD NOT
WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT WOMEN GET
STILL BE IN POVERTY AND I DO
EQUAL PAY FOR THE WORK WE DO.
WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT WOMEN GET
I FEEL STRONGLY THAT WE HAVE TO
EQUAL PAY FOR THE WORK WE DO.
HAVE AN EDUCATION SYSTEM THAT
I FEEL STRONGLY THAT WE HAVE TO
STARTS WITH PRESCHOOL AND GOES
HAVE AN EDUCATION SYSTEM THAT
THROUGH COLLEGE.
STARTS WITH PRESCHOOL AND GOES
THAT'S WHY I WANT MORE TECHNICAL
THROUGH COLLEGE.
EDUCATION AND HIGH SCHOOLS AND
THAT'S WHY I WANT MORE TECHNICAL
IN COMMUNITY COLLEGES, REAL
EDUCATION AND HIGH SCHOOLS AND
APPRENTICESHIPS TO PREPARE
IN COMMUNITY COLLEGES, REAL
PEOPLE FOR THE FUTURE.
APPRENTICESHIPS TO PREPARE
I WANT TO MAKE COLLEGE DEBT FREE
PEOPLE FOR THE FUTURE.
AND FOR FAMILIES MAKING LESS
I WANT TO MAKE COLLEGE DEBT FREE
THAN $125,000 YOU WON'T GET A
AND FOR FAMILIES MAKING LESS
TUITION BILL FROM A COLLEGE OR
THAN $125,000 YOU WON'T GET A
UNIVERSITY IF THE PLAN THAT I
TUITION BILL FROM A COLLEGE OR
WORKED ON WITH BERNIE SANDERS IS
UNIVERSITY IF THE PLAN THAT I
ENACTED.
WORKED ON WITH BERNIE SANDERS IS
WE'LL MAKE SURE IT IS, BECAUSE
ENACTED.
WE'RE GOING WITH THE MONEY IS.
WE'LL MAKE SURE IT IS, BECAUSE
MOST OF THE GAINS IN THE LAST
WE'RE GOING WITH THE MONEY IS.
YEARS SINCE THE GREAT RECESSION
MOST OF THE GAINS IN THE LAST
HAVE GONE TO THE VERY TOP.
YEARS SINCE THE GREAT RECESSION
SO WE ARE GOING TO HAVE THE
HAVE GONE TO THE VERY TOP.
WEALTHY PAY THEIR FAIR SHARE.
SO WE ARE GOING TO HAVE THE
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE CORPORATIONS
WEALTHY PAY THEIR FAIR SHARE.
MAKE A CONTRIBUTION GREATER THAN
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE CORPORATIONS
THEY ARE NOW TO OUR COUNTRY.
MAKE A CONTRIBUTION GREATER THAN
THAT IS A PLAN THAT HAS BEEN
THEY ARE NOW TO OUR COUNTRY.
ANALYZED BY INDEPENDENT EXPERTS
THAT IS A PLAN THAT HAS BEEN
WHICH SAID THAT IT COULD PRODUCE
ANALYZED BY INDEPENDENT EXPERTS
10 MILLION NEW JOBS.
WHICH SAID THAT IT COULD PRODUCE
BY CONTRAST, DONALD'S PLAN HAS
10 MILLION NEW JOBS.
BEEN ANALYZED TO CONCLUDE IT
BY CONTRAST, DONALD'S PLAN HAS
MIGHT LOSE 3.5 MILLION JOBS.
BEEN ANALYZED TO CONCLUDE IT
WHY?
MIGHT LOSE 3.5 MILLION JOBS.
BECAUSE HIS WHOLE PLAN IS TO CUT
WHY?
TAXES, TO GIVE THE BIGGEST TAX
BECAUSE HIS WHOLE PLAN IS TO CUT
BREAKS EVER TO THE WEALTHY AND
TAXES, TO GIVE THE BIGGEST TAX
TO CORPORATIONS.
BREAKS EVER TO THE WEALTHY AND
ADDING $20 TRILLION TO OUR DEBT.
TO CORPORATIONS.
AND CAUSING THE KIND OF
ADDING $20 TRILLION TO OUR DEBT.
DISLOCATION THAT WE HAVE SEEN
AND CAUSING THE KIND OF
BEFORE BECAUSE IT WILL TRULY BE
DISLOCATION THAT WE HAVE SEEN
TRICKLE DOWN ECONOMICS ON
BEFORE BECAUSE IT WILL TRULY BE
STEROIDS.
TRICKLE DOWN ECONOMICS ON
SO THE PLAN I HAVE I THINK WILL
STEROIDS.
PRODUCE GREATER OPPORTUNITIES.
SO THE PLAN I HAVE I THINK WILL
THE PLAN HE HAS WILL COST US
PRODUCE GREATER OPPORTUNITIES.
JOBS AND POSSIBLY LEAD TO
THE PLAN HE HAS WILL COST US
ANOTHER GREAT RECESSION.
JOBS AND POSSIBLY LEAD TO
>> SECRETARY, THANK YOU.
ANOTHER GREAT RECESSION.
MR. TRUMP, WHY WILL YOUR PLAN
>> SECRETARY, THANK YOU.
CREATE MORE JOBS AND GROWTH THAN
MR. TRUMP, WHY WILL YOUR PLAN
CLICK?
CREATE MORE JOBS AND GROWTH THAN
>> FIRST OF ALL, HER PLAN WILL
CLICK?
RAISE TAXES AND EVEN DOUBLE YOUR
>> FIRST OF ALL, HER PLAN WILL
TAXES.
RAISE TAXES AND EVEN DOUBLE YOUR
HER TAX PLAN IS A DISASTER AND
TAXES.
SHE CAN SAY ALL SHE WANTS ABOUT
HER TAX PLAN IS A DISASTER AND
COLLEGE TUITION, AND I'M A BIG
SHE CAN SAY ALL SHE WANTS ABOUT
PROPONENT, WE'RE GOING TO DO A
COLLEGE TUITION, AND I'M A BIG
LOT OF THINGS FOR COLLEGE
PROPONENT, WE'RE GOING TO DO A
TUITION.
LOT OF THINGS FOR COLLEGE
BUT THE REST OF THE PUBLIC'S
TUITION.
GOING TO BE PAYING FOR IT.
BUT THE REST OF THE PUBLIC'S
WE WILL HAVE A MASSIVE, MASSIVE
GOING TO BE PAYING FOR IT.
TAX INCREASE UNDER HILLARY
WE WILL HAVE A MASSIVE, MASSIVE
CLINTON'S PLAN.
TAX INCREASE UNDER HILLARY
BUT I'D LIKE TO START OFF WHERE
CLINTON'S PLAN.
WE LEFT.
BUT I'D LIKE TO START OFF WHERE
BECAUSE WHEN I SAID JAPAN AND
WE LEFT.
GERMANY AND I'M NOT JUST
BECAUSE WHEN I SAID JAPAN AND
SINGLING THEM OUT, SOUTH KOREA,
GERMANY AND I'M NOT JUST
THESE ARE VERY RICH, POWERFUL
SINGLING THEM OUT, SOUTH KOREA,
COUNTRIES.
THESE ARE VERY RICH, POWERFUL
SAUDI ARABIA.
COUNTRIES.
NOTHING BUT MONEY.
SAUDI ARABIA.
WE PROTECT SAUDI ARABIA.
NOTHING BUT MONEY.
WHY AREN'T THEY PAYING?
WE PROTECT SAUDI ARABIA.
SHE IMMEDIATELY WHEN SHE HEARD
WHY AREN'T THEY PAYING?
HER, I QUESTIONED IT AND I
SHE IMMEDIATELY WHEN SHE HEARD
QUESTIONED NATO.
HER, I QUESTIONED IT AND I
WHY AREN'T THEY PAYING?
QUESTIONED NATO.
BECAUSE THEY WEREN'T PAYING.
WHY AREN'T THEY PAYING?
SINCE DID THIS, THIS WAS A YEAR
BECAUSE THEY WEREN'T PAYING.
AGO.
SINCE DID THIS, THIS WAS A YEAR
ALL OF A SUDDEN, THEY'RE PAYING.
AGO.
I HAVE BEEN GIVEN A LOT OF
ALL OF A SUDDEN, THEY'RE PAYING.
CREDIT FOR IT.
I HAVE BEEN GIVEN A LOT OF
ALL OF A SUDDEN, THEY'RE
CREDIT FOR IT.
STARTING TO PAY UP.
ALL OF A SUDDEN, THEY'RE
THEY HAVE TO PAY UP.
STARTING TO PAY UP.
WE'RE PROTECTING PEOPLE, THEY
THEY HAVE TO PAY UP.
HAVE TO PAY UP.
WE'RE PROTECTING PEOPLE, THEY
AND I'M A BIG FAN OF NATO.
HAVE TO PAY UP.
BUT THEY HAVE TO PAY UP.
AND I'M A BIG FAN OF NATO.
SHE COMES OUT AND SAID, WE LOVE
BUT THEY HAVE TO PAY UP.
OUR ALLIES, WE THINK OUR ALLIES
SHE COMES OUT AND SAID, WE LOVE
ARE GREAT.
OUR ALLIES, WE THINK OUR ALLIES
WELL, IT'S AWFULLY HARD TO GET
ARE GREAT.
THEM TO PAY UP WHEN YOU HAVE
WELL, IT'S AWFULLY HARD TO GET
SOMEBODY SAYING, WE THINK HOW
THEM TO PAY UP WHEN YOU HAVE
GREAT THEY ARE.
SOMEBODY SAYING, WE THINK HOW
WE HAVE TO TELL JAPAN IN A NICE
GREAT THEY ARE.
WAY AND GERMANY, ALL OF THESE
WE HAVE TO TELL JAPAN IN A NICE
COUNTRY, SOUTH KOREA, WE HAVE TO
WAY AND GERMANY, ALL OF THESE
SAY, YOU HAVE TO HELP US OUT.
COUNTRY, SOUTH KOREA, WE HAVE TO
WE HAVE DURING HIS REGIME,
SAY, YOU HAVE TO HELP US OUT.
DURING PRESIDENT OBAMA'S REGIME,
WE HAVE DURING HIS REGIME,
WE HAVE DOUBLED OUR NATIONAL
DURING PRESIDENT OBAMA'S REGIME,
DEBT.
WE HAVE DOUBLED OUR NATIONAL
WE'RE UP TO $20 TRILLION.
DEBT.
SO MY PLAN WE'RE GOING TO
WE'RE UP TO $20 TRILLION.
RENEGOTIATE TRADE DEALS.
SO MY PLAN WE'RE GOING TO
WE'LL HAVE FREE TRADE.
RENEGOTIATE TRADE DEALS.
WE HAVE HORRIBLE DEALS AND OUR
WE'LL HAVE FREE TRADE.
JOBS ARE BEING TAKEN OUT BY THE
WE HAVE HORRIBLE DEALS AND OUR
DEAL HER HUSBAND SIGNED, NAFTA,
JOBS ARE BEING TAKEN OUT BY THE
ONE OF THE WORST DEALS EVER.
DEAL HER HUSBAND SIGNED, NAFTA,
OUR JOBS ARE BEING SUCKED OUT OF
ONE OF THE WORST DEALS EVER.
OUR ECONOMY.
OUR JOBS ARE BEING SUCKED OUT OF
YOU LOOK AT ALL OF THE PLACES
OUR ECONOMY.
THAT I JUST LEFT, YOU GO TO
YOU LOOK AT ALL OF THE PLACES
PENNSYLVANIA, GO TO OHIO, YOU GO
THAT I JUST LEFT, YOU GO TO
TO FLORIDA.
PENNSYLVANIA, GO TO OHIO, YOU GO
YOU GO TO ANY OF THEM.
TO FLORIDA.
YOU GO UPSTATE NEW YORK.
YOU GO TO ANY OF THEM.
OUR JOBS HAVE FLED TO MEXICO AND
YOU GO UPSTATE NEW YORK.
OTHER PLACES.
OUR JOBS HAVE FLED TO MEXICO AND
WE'RE BRINGING THE JOBS BACK.
OTHER PLACES.
I'M GOING TO RENEGOTIATE NAFTA.
WE'RE BRINGING THE JOBS BACK.
I IF I CAN'T MAKE A -- IF I
I'M GOING TO RENEGOTIATE NAFTA.
CAN'T MAKE A GREAT DEAL, WE'LL
I IF I CAN'T MAKE A -- IF I
CREATE NEW DEALS.
CAN'T MAKE A GREAT DEAL, WE'LL
WE'LL HAVE TRADE.
CREATE NEW DEALS.
BUT WE'RE GOING TO TERMINATE IT,
WE'LL HAVE TRADE.
WE'LL MAKE A GREAT TRADE DEAL.
BUT WE'RE GOING TO TERMINATE IT,
IF WE CAN'T, WE'LL DO IT --
WE'LL MAKE A GREAT TRADE DEAL.
WE'LL GO A SEPARATE WAY.
IF WE CAN'T, WE'LL DO IT --
BECAUSE IT HAS BEEN A DISASTER.
WE'LL GO A SEPARATE WAY.
WE ARE GOING TO CUT TAXES
BECAUSE IT HAS BEEN A DISASTER.
MASSIVELY.
WE ARE GOING TO CUT TAXES
GOING TO CUT BUSINESS TAXES
MASSIVELY.
THEY'RE GOING TO START HIRING
PEOPLE.
WE'RE GOING TO BRING IN THE
2.5 MILLION OFF SHORE.
RIGHT NOW OUR COUNTRY IS DYING
AT 1% GDP.
>> LET ME TRANSLATE THAT IF I
CAN.
>> YOU CAN'T.
>> HE'S GOING TO ADVOCATE FOR
THE LARGEST TAX CUTS WE HAVE
EVER SEEN.
THREE TIMES MORE THAN THE TAX
CUTS UNDER THE BUSH
ADMINISTRATION.
I HAVE SAID REPEATEDLY
THROUGHOUT THIS CAMPAIGN, I WILL
NOT RAISE TAXES ON ANYONE MAKING
$250,000 OR LESS.
I ALSO WILL NOT ADD A PENNY TO
THE DEBT.
I HAVE COSTED OUT WHAT I'M GOING
TO DO.
HE WILL THROUGH HIS MASSIVE TAX
CUTS ADD $20 TRILLION TO THE
DEBT.
WELL, HE MENTIONED THE DEBT.
WE KNOW HOW TO GET CONTROL OF
THE DEBT.
WHEN MY HUSBAND WAS PRESIDENT,
WE WENT FROM $300 BILLION
DEFICIT TO A $200 BILLION
SURPLUS AND WE WERE ON THE PATH
TO ELIMINATING THE NATIONAL
DEBT.
WHEN PRESIDENT OBAMA CAME INTO
OFFICE, HE INHERITED THE WORST
ECONOMIC DISASTER SINCE THE
GREAT DEPRESSION.
HE HAS CUT THE DEFICIT BY
TWO-THIRDS.
SO YES, ONE OF THE WAYS YOU GO
AFTER THE DEBT, ONE OF THE WAYS
YOU CREATE JOBS IS BY INVESTING
IN PEOPLE.
SO I DO HAVE INVESTMENTS,
INVESTMENTS IN NEW JOBS.
INVESTMENTS IN EDUCATION.
SKILL TRAINING, AND THE
OPPORTUNITIES FOR PEOPLE TO GET
AHEAD AND STAY AHEAD.
THAT'S THE KIND OF APPROACH THAT
WILL WORK.
CUTTING TAXES ON THE WEALTHY, WE
HAVE TRIED THAT.
IT HAS NOT WORKED THE WAY THAT
IT HAS BEEN --
>> SECRETARY CLINTON, I WANT TO
PURSUE YOUR PLAN, BECAUSE IN
MANY WAYS IT IS SIMILAR TO THE
OBAMA STIMULUS PLAN IN 2009.
WHICH HAS LED TO THE SLOWEST GDP
GROWTH SINCE 1949.
>> CORRECT.
>> THANK YOU, SIR.
YOU TOLD ME IN JULY WHEN WE
SPOKE THAT THE PROBLEM IS THAT
PRESIDENT OBAMA DIDN'T GET TO DO
ENOUGH IN WHAT HE WAS TRYING TO
DO WITH THIS STIMULUS.
SO IS YOUR PLAN BASICALLY
MORE -- EVEN MORE OF THE OBAMA
STIMULUS?
>> WELL, IT'S A COMBINATION,
CHRIS.
LET ME SAY THAT WHEN YOU INHERIT
THE LEVEL OF ECONOMIC
CATASTROPHE THAT PRESIDENT OBAMA
INHERITED, IT WAS A REAL TOUCH
AND GO SITUATION.
I WAS IN THE SENATE BEFORE I
BECAME SECRETARY OF STATE.
I HAVE NEVER SEEN PEOPLE AS
PHYSICALLY DISTRAUGHT AS THE
BUSH ADMINISTRATION TEAM WAS
BECAUSE OF WHAT WAS HAPPENING TO
THE ECONOMY.
I PERSONALLY BELIEVE THAT THE
STEPS THAT PRESIDENT OBAMA TOOK
SAVED THE ECONOMY.
HE DOESN'T GET THE CREDIT HE
DESERVES FOR TAKING SOME VERY
HARD POSITIONS.
BUT IT WAS A TERRIBLE RECESSION.
SO NOW WE'VE DUG OURSELVES OUT
OF IT, WE'RE STANDING, BUT WE'RE
NOT YET RUNNING.
SO WHAT I AM PROPOSING IS THAT
WE INVEST FROM THE MIDDLE OUT
AND THE GROUND UP.
NOT THE TOP DOWN.
THAT IS NOT GOING TO WORK.
THAT'S WHY WHAT I HAVE PUT
FORWARD DOESN'T ADD A PENNY TO
THE DEBT.
BUT IT IS THE KIND OF APPROACH
THAT WILL ENABLE MORE PEOPLE TO
TAKE THOSE NEW JOBS, HIGHER
PAYING JOBS.
WE ARE BEGINNING TO SEE SOME
INCREASE IN INCOMES AND WE
CERTAINLY HAVE HAD A LONG STRING
OF INCREASING JOBS.
WE HAVE GOT TO DO MORE TO GET
THE WHOLE ECONOMY MOVING AND
THAT'S WHAT I BELIEVE I WILL BE
ABLE TO DO.
>> MR. TRUMP, EVEN CONSERVATIVE
ECONOMISTS WHO HAVE LOOKED AT
YOUR PLAN SAY THAT THE NUMBERS
DON'T ADD UP, THAT YOUR IDEA AND
YOU HAVE TALKED ABOUT 25 MILLION
JOBS CREATED, 4% --
>> OVER A TEN-YEAR PERIOD.
>> -- GROWTH IS UNREALISTIC.
THEY SAY -- YOU TALK ABOUT
GROWING THE ENERGY INDUSTRY.
THEY SAY WITH OIL PRICES AS LOW
AS THEY ARE RIGHT NOW THAT'S
UNREALISTIC RIGHT NOW.
YOUR RESPONSE?
>> SO I JUST LEFT SOME HIGH
REPRESENTATIVES OF INDIA.
THEY'RE GROWING AT 8%.
CHINA IS GROWING AT 7% AND THAT
FOR THEM IS A CATASTROPHICALLY
LOW NUMBER.
WE ARE GROWING OUR LAST REPORT
CAME OUT, AND IT'S RIGHT AROUND
THE 1% LEVEL AND I THINK IT'S
GOING DOWN.
LAST WEEK AS YOU KNOW, THE END
OF LAST WEEK, THEY CAME OUT WITH
AN ANEMIC JOBS REPORT.
TERRIBLE JOBS REPORT.
IN FACT I SAID, IS THAT THE LAST
JOBS REPORT BEFORE THE ELECTION?
BECAUSE IF IT IS, I SHOULD WIN
EASILY.
IT WAS SO BAD.
THE REPORT WAS SO BAD.
LOOK, OUR COUNTRY IS STAGNANT.
WE HAVE LOST OUR JOBS.
WE HAVE LOST OUR BUSINESSES.
WE'RE NOT MAKING THINGS ANYMORE.
RELATIVELY SPEAKING.
OUR PRODUCT IS POURING IN FROM
CHINA, POURING IN FROM VIETNAM,
ALL OVER THE WORLD.
I'VE VISITED SO MANY
COMMUNITIES.
THIS IS IS AN INCREDIBLE
EDUCATION FOR ME, CHRIS.
I HAVE GOTTEN TO KNOW SO MANY, I
HAVE MANY FRIENDS OVER THE LAST
YEAR.
THEY CRY WHEN THEY SEE WHAT
HAPPENED.
I PASS FACTORIES THAT WERE
THRIVING 20, 25 YEARS AGO AND
BECAUSE OF THE BILL THAT HER
HUSBAND SIGNED AND SHE BLESSED
100%, IT IS JUST HORRIBLE WHAT'S
HAPPENED TO THESE PEOPLE IN
THESE COMMUNITIES.
NOW, SHE CAN SAY THAT HER
HUSBAND DID WELL, BUT BOY DID
THEY SUFFER AS NAFTA KICKED
BECAUSE IT DIDN'T KICK IN VERY
MUCH, BUT IT KICKED IN AFTER
THEY LEFT.
BOY, DID THEY SUFFER.
THAT WAS ONE OF THE WORST THINGS
THAT'S EVER BEEN SIGNED BY OUR
COUNTRY.
NOW SHE WANTS TO SIGN
TRANSPACIFIC PARTNERSHIPS.
SHE LIED WHEN SHE DIDN'T CALL IT
THE GOLD STANDARD IN ONE OF THE
DEBATES SHE TOTALLY LIED AND
THEY FACT CHECKED AND SAID I WAS
RIGHT.
>> I WANT YOU TO SPEAK TO THAT,
AND THEN IT TO PIVOT --
>> THAT WILL BE AS BAD AS NAFTA.
>> BRIEFLY.
>> FIRST, LET ME SAY NUMBER ONE,
WHEN I SAW THE FINAL AGREEMENT
FOR TPP I SAID I WAS AGAINST IT.
IT DIDN'T MEET MY TEST.
I HAVE HAD THE SAME TEST.
DOES IT CREATE JOBS, I'LL BE
AGAINST IT NOW, AFTER THE
ELECTION AND AFTER I'M
PRESIDENT.
THERE'S ONLY ONE WHO'S SHIPPED
JOBS TO MEXICO, THAT'S DONALD.
HE'S SHIPPED JOBS TO 12
COUNTRIES INCLUDING MEXICO.
HE MENTIONED CHINA AND ONE OF
THE BIGGEST PROBLEMS WE HAVE IS
THE ILLEGAL DUMPING OF STEEL AND
ALUMINUM IN OUR MARKETS.
I HAVE FOUGHT AGAINST THAT AS A
SENATOR.
I HAVE STOOD UP AGAINST IT AS
SECRETARY OF STATE.
DONALD HAS BOUGHT CHINESE STEEL
AND ALUMINUM.
IN FACT, THE TRUMP HOTEL RIGHT
HERE IN LAS VEGAS WAS MADE WITH
CHINESE STEEL.
SO HE GOES AROUND WITH CROCODILE
TEARS ABOUT HOW TERRIBLE IT IS,
BUT HE'S GIVEN JOBS TO CHINESE
STEELWORKERS, NOT AMERICAN
STEELWORKERS.
THAT'S THE KIND OF APPROACH THAT
IS JUST NOT GOING TO WORK.
WE'RE GOING TO PULL THE COUNTRY
TOGETHER, WE'RE GOING TO HAVE
TRADE AGREEMENTS THAT WE
ENFORCE.
THAT'S WHY I'M GOING TO HAVE
TRADE PROSECUTOR FOR THE FIRST
TIME IN HISTORY AND WE'RE GOING
TO ENFORCE THOSE AGREEMENTS AND
WE'RE GOING TO LOOK FOR
BUSINESSES --
>> SECRETARY CLINTON --
>> BY BUYING AMERICAN PRODUCTS.
>> I ASK A SIMPLE QUESTION.
SHE'S BEEN DOING THIS FOR 30
YEARS.
WHY THE HELL DIDN'T YOU DO IT
OVER THE LAST 15 OR 20 YEARS?
-- EXCUSE ME, MY TURN.
YOU WERE INVOLVED IN EVERY
ASPECT OF THIS COUNTRY.
VERY MUCH.
YOU DO HAVE EXPERIENCE.
I SAY THE ONE THING YOU HAVE
OVER ME IS EXPERIENCE BUT IT'S
BAD EXPERIENCE BECAUSE WHAT YOU
HAVE DONE HAS TURNED OUT BADLY.
YOU HAVE BEEN IN A POSITION TO
HELP, AND YOU SAY I USE STEEL OR
SOMETHING ELSE, I MAKE IT
IMPOSSIBLE -- YOU MAKE IT
IMPOSSIBLE FOR ME TO DO THAT.
THE PROBLEM IS YOU TALK, BUT YOU
DON'T GET ANYTHING DONE,
HILLARY.
YOU DON'T.
JUST LIKE WHEN YOU RAN THE STATE
DEPARTMENT.
$6 BILLION WAS MISSING.
HOW DO YOU MISS $6 BILLION?
YOU RAN THE STATE DEPARTMENT.
$6 BILLION WAS EITHER STOLEN,
THEY DON'T KNOW.
IT'S GONE.
$6 BILLION.
IF YOU BECOME PRESIDENT, THIS
COUNTRY IS GOING TO BE IN SOME
MESS, BELIEVE ME.
>> WELL, FIRST OF ALL, WHAT HE
JUST SAID ABOUT THE STATE
DEPARTMENT IS NOT ONLY UNTRUE,
IT'S BEEN DEBUNKED NUMEROUS
TIMES.
BUT HE RAISED THE 30 YEARS OF
EXPERIENCE, SO LET ME JUST TALK
BRIEFLY ABOUT THAT.
YOU KNOW, BACK IN THE 1970'S I,
WORKED FOR THE CHILDREN'S
DEFENSE FUND.
I WAS TAKING ON DISCRIMINATION
AGAINST AFRICAN-AMERICAN KIDS IN
SCHOOL AND HE WAS GETTING SUED
FOR RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN HIS
APARTMENT BUILDINGS IN THE 1980s
I WAS WORKING TO REFORM THE
SCHOOLS IN ARKANSAS.
HE WAS BORROWING $14 MILLION
FROM HIS FATHER TO START HIS
BUSINESSES.
IN THE 1990s I WENT TO BEIJING
AND I SAID, WOMEN'S RIGHTS ARE
HUMAN RIGHTS.
HE INSULTED A FORMER MISS
UNIVERSE ALICIA MACHADO, CALLED
HER AN EATING MACHINE.
>> GIVE ME A BREAK.
>> ON THE DAY WHEN I WAS IN THE
SITUATION ROOM, MONITORING THE
RAID THAT BROUGHT OSAMA BIN
LADEN TO JUSTICE, HE WAS HOSTING
THE CELEBRITY APPRENTICE.
I'M HAPPY TO COMPARE MY 30 YEARS
OF EXPERIENCE, WHAT I HAVE DONE
FOR THIS COUNTRY, TRYING TO HELP
IN EVERY WAY I COULD, ESPECIALLY
KIDS AND FAMILIES GET AHEAD AND
STAY AHEAD WITH YOUR 30 YEARS,
AND I'LL LET THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
MAKE THAT DECISION.
>> WELL, I THINK I DID A MUCH
BETTER JOB, I BUILD A MASSIVE
COMPANY, A GREAT COMPANY, SOME
OF THE GREATEST ASSETS ANYMORE
IN THE WORLD, WORTH MANY
BILLIONS OF DOLLARS.
I STARTED WITH A $1 MILLION
LOAN.
I AGREE WITH THAT.
BUT I BUILT A PHENOMENAL COUNTRY
AND IF WE COULD RUN THE COUNTRY
THE WAY I RUN MY COMPANY, YOU
WOULD EVEN BE PROUD OF IT.
AND FRANKLY, WHEN YOU LOOK AT
HER REAL RECORD, TAKE A LOOK AT
SYRIA.
TAKE A LOOK AT THE MIGRATION.
TAKE A LOOK AT LIBYA.
TAKE A LOOK AT IRAQ.
SHE GAVE US ISIS BECAUSE HER AND
OBAMA CREATED THIS HUGE VACUUM
AND A SMALL GROUP CAME OUT OF
THAT HUGE VACUUM BECAUSE WHEN --
WE SHOULD NEVER HAVE BEEN IN
IRAQ, BUT ONCE WE WERE THERE WE
SHOULD HAVE NEVER GOT OUT THE
WAY THEY WANTED TO GET OUT.
WHAT HAPPENED NOW ISIS IS IN 32
COUNTRIES, AND NOW I LISTEN HOW
SHE'S GOING TO GET RID OF ISIS.
SHE'S GOING TO GET RID OF
NOBODY.
>> ALL RIGHT.
WE ARE GOING TO GET TO FOREIGN
HOT SPOTS IN A FEW MOMENTS BUT
THE NEXT SEGMENT IS FITNESS TO
BE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES.
MR. TRUMP, YOU SAID YOUR TALK
ABOUT GRABBING WOMEN WAS JUST
THAT -- TALK.
AND THAT YOU NEVER HAD DONE IT.
SINCE THEN AS WE ALL KNOW, NINE
WOMEN HAVE COME FORWARD AND HAVE
SAID THAT YOU EITHER GROPED THEM
OR KISSED THEM WITHOUT THEIR
CONSENT.
WHY WOULD SO MANY DIFFERENT
WOMEN FROM SO MANY DIFFERENT
CIRCUMSTANCES OVER SO MANY
DIFFERENT YEARS, WHY WOULD THEY
ALL IN THIS LAST COUPLE OF WEEKS
MAKE UP -- YOU DENY THIS, WHY
WOULD THEY MAKE UP THESE STORIES
SINCE THIS A QUESTION FOR BOTH
OF YOU, SECRETARY CLINTON, MR.
TRUMP SAYS WHAT YOUR HUSBAND DID
AND THAT YOU DEFENDED WAS EVEN
WORSE.
MR. TRUMP, YOU GO FIRST.
>> WELL, FIRST OF ALL, THOSE
STORIES HAVE BEEN LARGELY
DEBUNKED.
THOSE PEOPLE I DON'T KNOW THOSE
PEOPLE.
I HAVE A FEELING HOW THEY CAME.
I BELIEVE IT WAS HER CAMPAIGN
THAT DID IT.
JUST LIKE IF YOU LOOK AT WHAT
CAME OUT TODAY ON THE CLIPS
WHERE I WAS WONDERING WHAT
HAPPENED WITH MY RALLY IN
CHICAGO AND OTHER RALLIES WHERE
WE HAD SUCH VIOLENCE?
SHE'S THE ONE AND OBAMA THAT
CAUSED THE VIOLENCE.
THEY HIRED PEOPLE, THEY PAID
THEM $1,500 AND THEY'RE ON TAPE
SAYING, BE VIOLENT, CAUSE
FIGHTS, DO BAD THINGS.
I WOULD SAY THE ONLY WAY --
BECAUSE THOSE STORIES ARE ALL
TOTALLY FALSE, I HAVE TO SAY
THAT.
AND I DIDN'T EVEN APOLOGIZE TO
MY WIFE WHO IS SITTING RIGHT
HERE, BECAUSE I DIDN'T DO
ANYTHING.
I DIDN'T KNOW ANY OF THESE
WOMEN.
I DIDN'T SEE THESE WOMEN.
THESE WOMEN -- THE WOMAN ON THE
PLANE, I THINK THEY WANT EITHER
FAME OR HER CAMPAIGN DID IT.
I THINK IT'S HER CAMPAIGN.
BECAUSE WHAT I SAW WHAT THEY
DID, WHICH IS A CRIMINAL ACT BY
THE WAY, WHERE THEY'RE TELLING
PEOPLE TO GO OUT AND START FIST
FIGHTS AND START VIOLENCE.
I'LL TELL YOU WHAT, IN
PARTICULAR -- PARTICULARLY IN
CHICAGO PEOPLE WERE HURT AND
PEOPLE COULD HAVE BEEN KILLED IN
THAT RIOT.
AND THAT WAS NOW ALL ON TAPE,
STARTED BY HER.
I BELIEVE, CHRIS, THAT SHE GOT
THESE PEOPLE TO STEP FORWARD.
IF IT WASN'T, THEY GET THEIR TEN
MINUTES OF FAME.
BUT THEY WERE ALL TOTALLY -- IT
WAS ALL FICTION.
IT WAS LIES AND IT WAS FICTION.
>> WELL --
>> SECRETARY CLINTON.
>> AT THE LAST DEBATE, WE HEARD
DONALD TALKING ABOUT WHAT HE DID
TO WOMEN AND AFTER THAT A NUMBER
OF WOMEN HAVE COME FORWARD
SAYING THAT'S EXACTLY WHAT HE
DID TO THEM.
NOW, WHAT WAS HIS RESPONSE?
WELL, HE HELD A NUMBER OF BIG
RALLIES WHERE HE SAID THAT HE
COULD NOT POSSIBLY HAVE DONE
THOSE THINGS TO THOSE WOMEN
BECAUSE THEY WERE NOT ATTRACTIVE
ENOUGH FOR --
>> I DID NOT SAY THAT.
>> -- TO BE ASSAULTED.
>> I DID NOT THEY.
>> IN FACT, HE WENT ON --
>> HER TWO MINUTES -- SIR, HER
TWO MINUTES.
HER TWO MINUTES.
>> HE WENT ON THE SAY, LOOK AT
HER.
I DON'T THINK SO.
ABOUT ANOTHER WOMAN, HE SAID
THAT WOULDN'T BE MY FIRST
CHOICE.
HE ATTACKED THE WOMAN REPORTER
WRITING THE STORY.
CALLED HER DISGUSTING AS HE'S
CALLED A NUMBER OF WOMEN DURING
THIS CAMPAIGN.
DONALD THINKS BELITTLING WOMEN
MAKES HIM BIGGER.
HE GOES AFTER THEIR DIGNITY,
THEIR SELF-WORTH AND I DON'T
THINK THERE IS A WOMAN ANYWHERE
WHO DOESN'T KNOW WHAT THAT FEELS
LIKE.
SO WE NOW KNOW WHAT DONALD
THINKS AND WHAT HE SAYS AND HOW
HE ACTS TOWARD WOMEN.
THAT'S WHO DONALD IS.
I THINK IT'S REALLY UP TO ALL OF
US TO DEMONSTRATE WHO WE ARE AND
WHO OUR COUNTRY IS.
AND TO STAND UP AND BE VERY
CLEAR ABOUT WHAT WE EXPECT FROM
OUR NEXT PRESIDENT.
HOW WE WANT TO BRING OUR COUNTRY
TOGETHER.
WHERE WE DON'T WANT TO HAVE THE
KIND OF PITTING OF PEOPLE, ONE
AGAINST THE OTHER, WHERE INSTEAD
WE CELEBRATE OUR DIVERSITY.
WE LIFT PEOPLE UP.
AND WE MAKE OUR COUNTRY EVEN
GREATER.
AMERICA IS GREAT BECAUSE AMERICA
IS GOOD.
AND IT REALLY IS UP TO ALL OF US
TO MAKE THAT TRUE, NOW AND IN
THE FUTURE AND PARTICULARLY FOR
OUR CHILDREN AND OUR
GRANDCHILDREN.
>> MR. TRUMP --
>> NOBODY HAS MORE RESPECT FOR
WOMEN THAN I DO.
NOBODY.
NOBODY HAS MORE RESPECT --
>> PLEASE, EVERYBODY.
>> AND FRANKLY, THE STORIES HAVE
BEEN LARGELY DEBUNKED AND I
REALLY WANT TO JUST TALK ABOUT
SOMETHING SLIGHTLY DIFFERENT.
SHE MENTIONS THIS, WHICH IS ALL
FICTION, ALL FICTIONALIZED,
PROBABLY OR POSSIBLY STARTED BY
HER AND HER SLEAZY CAMPAIGN.
BUT I WILL TELL YOU WHAT ISN'T
FICTIONALIZED ARE HER E-MAILS
WHERE SHE DESTROYED 33,000
E-MAILS CRIMINALLY, CRIMINALLY,
AFTER GETTING A SUBPOENA FROM
THE UNITED STATES CONGRESS.
WHAT HAPPENED TO THE FBI I DON'T
KNOW.
WE HAVE A GREAT GENERAL,
FOUR-STAR GENERAL, TODAY YOU
READ IT IN ALL OF THE PAPERS
GOING TO POTENTIALLY SERVE FIVE
YEARS IN JAIL FOR LYING TO THE
FBI.
ONE LIE, SHE'S LIED HUNDREDS OF
TIMES TO THE PEOPLE, TO
CONGRESS, AND TO THE FBI.
HE'S GOING TO PROBABLY GO TO
JAIL.
THIS IS A FOUR-STAR GENERAL AND
SHE GETS AWAY WITH IT, AND SHE
CAN RUN FOR THE PRESIDENCY OF
THE UNITED STATES?
THAT'S REALLY WHAT YOU SHOULD BE
TALKING ABOUT.
NOT FICTION WHERE SOMEBODY WANTS
FAME OR WHERE THEY COME OUT OF
HER CROOKED CAMPAIGN.
>> SECRETARY CLINTON?
>> WELL, EVERY TIME DONALD IS
PUSHED ON SOMETHING WHICH IS
OBVIOUSLY UNCOMFORTABLE LIKE
WHAT THESE WOMEN ARE SAYING, HE
IMMEDIATELY GOES TO DENYING
RESPONSIBILITY AND IT'S NOT JUST
ABOUT WOMEN.
HE NEVER APOLOGIZES OR SAYS HE'S
SORRY FOR ANYTHING.
SO WE KNOW WHAT HE HAS SAID AND
WHAT HE'S DONE TO WOMEN.
BUT HE ALSO WENT AFTER A
DISABLED REPORTER, MOCKED AND
MIMICKED HIM ON NATIONAL
TELEVISION.
>> WRONG.
>> HE WENT AFTER MR. AND MRS.
KHAN, THE PARENTS OF A YOUNG MAN
WHO DIED SERVING OUR COUNTRY, A
GOLD STAR FAMILY BECAUSE OF
THEIR RELIGION.
HE WENT AFTER JOHN McCAIN, A
PRISONER OF WAR SAID HE PREFERS
PEOPLE WHO AREN'T CAPTURED.
HE WENT AFTER A FEDERAL JUDGE,
BORN IN INDIANA, BUT WHO DONALD
SAID COULDN'T BE TRUSTED TO TRY
THE FRAUD AND RACKETEERING CASE
AGAINST TRUMP UNIVERSITY BECAUSE
HIS PARENTS WERE MEXICAN.
SO IT'S NOT ONE THING.
THIS IS A PATTERN.
A PATTERN OF DIVISIVENESS, OF A
VERY DARK AND IN MANY WAYS
DANGEROUS VISION OF OUR COUNTRY.
WHERE HE INCITES VIOLENCE, WHERE
HE APPLAUDS PEOPLE WHO ARE
PUSHING AND PULLING AND PUNCHING
AT HIS RALLIES.
THAT IS NOT WHO AMERICA IS.
AND I HOPE THAT AS WE MOVE IN
THE LAST WEEKS OF THIS CAMPAIGN,
MORE AND MORE PEOPLE WILL
UNDERSTAND WHAT'S AT STAKE IN
THIS ELECTION.
IT REALLY DOES COME DOWN DO WHAT
KIND OF COUNTRY WE ARE GOING TO
HAVE.
>> SO SAD WHEN SHE TALKS ABOUT
VIOLENCE AT MY RALLIES AND SHE
CAUSED THE VIOLENCE.
IT'S ON TAPE.
>> DURING THE --
>> THE OTHER THINGS ARE FALSE,
BUT HONESTLY I'D LOVE TO TALK
ABOUT GETTING RID OF ISIS AND
I'D LOVE TO TALK ABOUT OTHER
THINGS BUT THOSE OTHER CHARGES
AS SHE KNOWS ARE FALSE.
>> IN THIS BUCKET ABOUT FITNESS
TO BE PRESIDENT THERE'S BEEN A
LOT OF DEVELOPMENTS OVER THE
LAST TEN DAYS SINCE THE LAST
DEBATE.
I'D LIKE TO ASK YOU ABOUT THEM.
THESE ARE QUESTIONS THAT THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE HAVE.
SECRETARY CLINTON, DURING YOUR
2009 SENATE CONFIRMATION HEARING
YOU PROMISED TO AVOID EVEN THE
APPEARANCE OF A CONFLICT OF
INTEREST WITH YOUR DEALING WITH
THE CLINTON FOUNDATION WHILE
SECRETARY OF STATE BUT DONORS
GOT SPECIAL ACCESS TO YOU.
THOSE SEEKING HAITI RELIEF WERE
CONSIDERED SEPARATELY FROM
NONDONORS AND SOME GOT TAXPAYER
MONEY.
CAN YOU SAY YOU KEPT YOUR PLEDGE
TO THE SENATE COMMITTEE AND WHAT
WENT ON YOU TWO -- WHY ISN'T IT
WHAT MR. TRUMP CALLS PAY TO
PLAY?
>> EVERYTHING I DID AS SECRETARY
OF STATE WAS IN FURTHERANCE OF
OUR COUNTRY'S INTERESTS AND OUR
VALUES.
THE STATE DEPARTMENT HAS SAID
THAT.
I THINK THAT'S BEEN PROVEN, BUT
I AM HAPPY, IN FACT I'M THRILLED
TO TALK ABOUT THE CLINTON
FOUNDATION BECAUSE IT'S A WORLD
RENOWNED CHARITY AND I AM SO
PROUD OF THE WORK THAT IT DOES.
YOU KNOW, I COULD TALK FOR THE
REST OF THE DEBATE, I KNOW I
DON'T HAVE THE TIME TO DO THAT.
BUT JUST BRIEFLY, THE CLINTON
FOUNDATION MADE IT POSSIBLE FOR
11 MILLION PEOPLE AROUND THE
WORLD WITH HIV AIDS TO AFFORD
TREATMENT THAT'S ABOUT HALF ALL
THE PEOPLE GETTING TREATMENT.
IN PARTNER WITH THE AMERICAN
HEALTH ASSOCIATION WE HAVE MADE
ENVIRONMENTS IN SCHOOLS --
>> SECRETARY CLINTON, THIS IS AN
OPEN DISCUSSION.
AND THE SPECIFIC QUESTION WENT
TO PAY TO PLAY.
>> I THINK -- LOOK, I THINK --
>> LET'S ASK --
>> IT'S BEEN WELL STUDIED.
IT'S CRIMINAL ENTERPRISE THAT --
>> PLEASE LET MR. TRUMP SPEAK.
>> IT'S A -- SAUDI ARABIA GAVING
$25 MILLION, QATAR, ALL OF THESE
COUNTRIES.
ER YOU TALK ABOUT WOMEN AND
WOMEN'S RIGHTS.
SO THESE ARE PEOPLE THAT PUSH
GAYS OFF BUILDINGS.
THESE ARE PEOPLE THAT KILL WOMEN
AND TREAT WOMEN HORRIBLY.
AND YET, YOU TAKE THEIR MONEY.
SO I'D LIKE TO ASK YOU RIGHT
NOW, WHY DON'T YOU GIVE BACK THE
MONEY THAT YOU HAVE TAKEN FROM
CERTAIN COUNTRIES THAT TREAT
CERTAIN GROUPS OF PEOPLE SO
HORRIBLY?
WHY DON'T YOU GIVE BACK THE
MONEY?
I THINK IT WOULD BE A GREAT
GESTURE BECAUSE SHE TAKES A
TREMENDOUS AMOUNT OF MONEY.
YOU TAKE A LOOK AT THE PEOPLE OF
HAITI.
I WAS AT A LITTLE HAITI THE
OTHER DAY IN FLORIDA.
AND I WANT TO TELL YOU, THEY
HATE THE CLINTONS.
BECAUSE WHAT'S HAPPENED IN HAITI
WITH THE CLINTON FOUNDATION IS A
DISGRACE.
AND YOU KNOW IT, AND THEY KNOW
IT, AND EVERYBODY KNOWS IT.
>> SECRETARY CLINTON?
>> VERY QUICKLY, WE AT THE
CLINTON FOUNDATION SPEND 90% --
90% OF ALL THE MONEY THAT IS
DONATED ON BEHALF OF PROGRAMS TO
PEOPLE AROUND THE WORLD AND IN
OUR OWN COUNTRY.
I'M VERY PROUD OF THAT.
WE HAVE THE HIGHEST RATING FROM
THE WATCHDOGS THAT FOLLOW
FOUNDATIONS AND I'D BE HAPPY TO
COMPARE WHAT WE DO WITH THE
TRUMP FOUNDATION WHICH TOOK
MONEY FROM OTHER PEOPLE AND
BOUGHT A SIX FOOT PORTRAIT OF
DONALD.
I MEAN, WHO DOES THAT?
I MEAN, IT WAS ASTONISHING.
BUT WHEN IT COMES TO HAITI,
HAITI IS THE POOREST COUNTRY IN
OUR HEMISPHERE.
THE EARTHQUAKE AND THE
HURRICANES, IT HAS DEVASTATED
HAITI.
THE CLINTON FOUNDATION RAISED
$30 MILLION TO HELP HAITI AFTER
THE CATASTROPHIC EARTHQUAKE AND
ALL OF THE TERRIBLE PROBLEMS
THAT PEOPLE THERE HAD.
WE HAVE DONE THINGS TO HELP
SMALL BUSINESSES, AGRICULTURE
AND SO MUCH ELSE.
WE'RE GOING TO KEEP WORKING TO
HELP HAITI BECAUSE IT'S AN
IMPORTANT PART OF THE
AMERICAN --
>> THEY DON'T WANT YOU TO HELP
THEM ANYMORE.
I WANT TO MENTION ONE THING.
TRUMP FOUNDATION, PEOPLE
CONTRIBUTE, I CONTRIBUTE.
THE MONEY GOES 100% GOES TO
DIFFERENT CHARITIES INCLUDING A
LOT OF MILITARY.
I DON'T GET ANYTHING.
I DON'T BUY BOATS, I DON'T BUY
PLANES.
WHAT HAPPENS THE MONEY --
>> WASN'T SOME OF THE MONEY USED
TO SETTLE YOUR LAWSUITS, SIR?
>> NO.
WE PUT UP THE AMERICAN FLAG.
AND THAT'S IT.
THEY PUT UP THE AMERICAN FLAG.
WE FOUGHT FOR THE RIGHT IN PALM
BEACH TO PUT UP THE AMERICAN
FLAG.
>> RIGHT.
THERE WAS A PENALTY THAT WAS
IMPOSED BY PALM BEACH COUNTY --
>> AND THEY BUILD HOUSES, THE
MONEY YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT WENT
TO FISHER HOUSE WHERE THEY BUILD
HOUSES FOR VETERANS AND
DISABLED --
>> I WANT TO GET IN --
>> OF COURSE NO WAY IF WE CAN
KNOW THAT'S TRUE, BECAUSE HE
HASN'T RELEASED HIS TAX RETURNS.
HE'S THE FIRST CANDIDATE TO RUN
FOR PRESIDENT IN THE LAST
40-PLUS YEARS WHO HAS NOT
RELEASED HIS TAX RETURNS SOME
EVERYTHING HE SAYS ABOUT CHARITY
OR ANYTHING ELSE, WE CAN'T PROVE
IT.
YOU CAN LOOK AT OUR TAX RETURNS.
WE'VE GOT THEM ALL OUT THERE.
BUT WHAT IS REALLY TROUBLING IS
THAT WE LEARNED IN THE LAST
DEBATE HE HAS NOT PAID A PENNY
IN FEDERAL INCOME TAX.
AND WE WERE TALKING ABOUT
IMMIGRANTS A FEW MINUTES AGO,
CHRIS.
YOU KNOW, HALF OF ALL
IMMIGRANTS -- UNDOCUMENTED
IMMIGRANTS IN OUR COUNTRY
ACTUALLY PAY FEDERAL INCOME TAX.
SO WE HAVE UNDOCUMENTED
IMMIGRANTS IN AMERICA WHO ARE
PAYING MORE FEDERAL INCOME TAX
THAN A BILLIONAIRE.
I FIND THAT --
>> LET ME JUST TELL YOU --
>> ASTONISHING.
>> WE'RE ENTITLED BECAUSE THE
PEOPLE LIKE HER PASSED TO TAKE
MASSIVE AMOUNTS OF DEPRECIATION
ON OTHER CHARGES AND WE DO IT.
JUST ABOUT ALL OF THE DONORS I
KNOW BUFFETT TOOK HUNDREDS OF
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS, GEORGE
SOROS, TOOK HUNDREDS OF MILLIONS
OF DOLLARS -- MOST OF HER DONORS
HAVE DONE THE SAME THING AS I
DO.
>> OKAY.
>> YOU KNOW WHAT SHE SHOULD HAVE
DONE -- YOU SHOULD HAVE CHANGED
THE LAW WHEN YOU WERE A SENATOR
BECAUSE YOUR DONORS AND YOUR
SPECIAL INTERESTS ARE DOING THE
SAME THING AS I DO, EXCEPT EVEN
MORE SO.
YOU SHOULD HAVE CHANGED THE LAW.
BUT YOU WON'T CHANGE THE LAW
BECAUSE YOU TAKE IN SO MUCH
MONEY.
I MEAN, I SAT IN MY APARTMENT
TODAY ON A VERY BEAUTIFUL HOTEL
DOWN THE STREET --
>> MADE WITH CHINESE STEEL.
>> BUT I'LL TELL YOU, I SAT
THERE, I SAT THERE WATCHING AD
AFTER AD AFTER AD, FALSE AD.
ALL PAID FOR BY YOUR FRIENDS ON
WALL STREET THAT GAVE SO MUCH
MONEY BECAUSE THEY KNOW YOU'RE
GOING TO PROTECT THEM AND
FRANKLY, YOU SHOULD HAVE
CHANGED -- YOU DON'T LIKE WHAT I
DID, YOU SHOULD HAVE CHANGED THE
LAWS.
>> MR. TRUMP, I WANT TO ASK YOU
ONE LAST QUESTION IN THIS TOPIC.
YOU HAVE BEEN WARNING AT RALLIES
RECENTLY THAT THIS ELECTION IS
RIGGED AND THAT HILLARY CLINTON
IS IN THE PROCESS OF TRYING TO
STEAL IT FROM YOU.
YOUR RUNNING MATE GOVERNOR
PENCE, HIS WORD, YOU AND HE WILL
ABSOLUTELY ACCEPT THE RESULT OF
THIS ELECTION.
TODAY YOUR DAUGHTER IVANKA SAID
THE SAME THING.
I WANT TO ASK YOU ON THE STAGE
TONIGHT, DO YOU MAKE THE SAME
COMMITMENT, SIR, THAT YOU WILL
ABSOLUTELY ACCEPT THE RESULT OF
THIS ELECTION?
>> I WILL LOOK AT IT AT THE
TIME.
I'M NOT LOOKING AT ANYTHING
RIGHT NOW.
WHAT I HAVE SEEN -- WHAT I HAVE
SEEN IS SO BAD.
FIRST OF ALL, THE MEDIA IS SO
DISHONEST AND SO CORRUPT AND THE
PILE-ON IS SO AMAZING.
"THE NEW YORK TIMES" ACTUALLY
WROTE AN ARTICLE ABOUT IT, BUT
THEY DON'T EVEN CARE.
IT'S SO DISHONEST, THEY HAVE
POISONED THE MIND OF THE VOTERS
BUT UNFORTUNATELY FOR THEM, I
THINK THE VOTERS ARE SEEING
THROUGH IT.
I THINK THEY'RE GOING TO SEE
WE'LL FIND OUT ON NOVEMBER 8th.
THROUGH IT.
EXCUSE ME, CHRIS, IF YOU LOOK AT
WE'LL FIND OUT ON NOVEMBER 8th.
YOUR VOTER ROLLS YOU WILL SEE
EXCUSE ME, CHRIS, IF YOU LOOK AT
MILLIONS OF PEOPLE THAT ARE
YOUR VOTER ROLLS YOU WILL SEE
REGISTERED TO VOTE.
MILLIONS OF PEOPLE THAT ARE
MILLIONS, THIS ISN'T COMING FROM
REGISTERED TO VOTE.
ME.
MILLIONS, THIS ISN'T COMING FROM
THIS IS COMING FROM PEW REPORT
ME.
AND OTHER PLACES AND MILLIONS OF
THIS IS COMING FROM PEW REPORT
PEOPLE THAT ARE REGISTERED TO
AND OTHER PLACES AND MILLIONS OF
VOTE THAT SHOULDN'T BE
PEOPLE THAT ARE REGISTERED TO
REGISTERED TO VOTE.
VOTE THAT SHOULDN'T BE
SO LET ME JUST GIVE YOU ONE
REGISTERED TO VOTE.
OTHER THING.
SO LET ME JUST GIVE YOU ONE
SO I TALK ABOUT THE CORRUPT
OTHER THING.
MEDIA.
SO I TALK ABOUT THE CORRUPT
I TALK ABOUT THE MILLIONS OF
MEDIA.
PEOPLE -- TELL YOU ONE OTHER
I TALK ABOUT THE MILLIONS OF
THING.
PEOPLE -- TELL YOU ONE OTHER
SHE SHOULDN'T BE ALLOWED TO RUN.
THING.
IT'S CROOKED -- SHE'S GUILTY OF
SHE SHOULDN'T BE ALLOWED TO RUN.
A VERY, VERY SERIOUS CRIME.
IT'S CROOKED -- SHE'S GUILTY OF
SHE SHOULD NOT BE ALLOWED TO
A VERY, VERY SERIOUS CRIME.
RUN.
SHE SHOULD NOT BE ALLOWED TO
AND JUST IN THAT RESPECT I SAY
RUN.
IT'S RIGGED.
AND JUST IN THAT RESPECT I SAY
BECAUSE SHE SHOULD NEVER --
IT'S RIGGED.
CHRIS, SHE SHOULD NEVER HAVE
BECAUSE SHE SHOULD NEVER --
BEEN ALLOWED TO RUN FOR THE
CHRIS, SHE SHOULD NEVER HAVE
PRESIDENCY BASED ON WHAT SHE DID
BEEN ALLOWED TO RUN FOR THE
WITH E-MAILS AND SO MANY OTHER
PRESIDENCY BASED ON WHAT SHE DID
THINGS.
WITH E-MAILS AND SO MANY OTHER
>> BUT SIR, THERE'S A TRADITION
THINGS.
IN THIS COUNTRY, IN FACT, ONE OF
>> BUT SIR, THERE'S A TRADITION
THE PRIDES OF THIS COUNTRY IS
IN THIS COUNTRY, IN FACT, ONE OF
THAT PEACEFUL TRANSITION OF
THE PRIDES OF THIS COUNTRY IS
POWER AND THAT NO MATTER HOW
THAT PEACEFUL TRANSITION OF
HARD FOUGHT A CAMPAIGN IS, THAT
POWER AND THAT NO MATTER HOW
AT THE END OF THE CAMPAIGN THAT
HARD FOUGHT A CAMPAIGN IS, THAT
THE LOSER CONCEDES TO THE
AT THE END OF THE CAMPAIGN THAT
WINNER.
THE LOSER CONCEDES TO THE
NOT SAYING THAT YOU'RE
WINNER.
NECESSARILY GOING TO BE THE
NOT SAYING THAT YOU'RE
LOSER OR THE WINNER.
NECESSARILY GOING TO BE THE
BUT THAT THE LOSER CONCEDES TO
LOSER OR THE WINNER.
THE WINNER AND THAT THE COUNTRY
BUT THAT THE LOSER CONCEDES TO
COMES TOGETHER IN PART FOR THE
THE WINNER AND THAT THE COUNTRY
GOOD OF THE COUNTRY.
COMES TOGETHER IN PART FOR THE
ARE YOU SAYING YOU'RE NOT
GOOD OF THE COUNTRY.
PREPARED NOW TO --
ARE YOU SAYING YOU'RE NOT
>> WHAT I'M SAYING IS THAT I
PREPARED NOW TO --
WILL TELL YOU AT THE TIME.
>> WHAT I'M SAYING IS THAT I
I'LL KEEP YOU IN SUSPENSE.
WILL TELL YOU AT THE TIME.
>> CHRIS, LET ME RESPOND TO THAT
I'LL KEEP YOU IN SUSPENSE.
BECAUSE THAT'S HORRIFYING.
>> CHRIS, LET ME RESPOND TO THAT
YOU KNOW, EVERY TIME DONALD
BECAUSE THAT'S HORRIFYING.
THINKS THINGS ARE NOT GOING IN
YOU KNOW, EVERY TIME DONALD
HIS DIRECTION, HE CLAIMS
THINKS THINGS ARE NOT GOING IN
WHATEVER IT IS IS RIGGED AGAINST
HIS DIRECTION, HE CLAIMS
HIM.
WHATEVER IT IS IS RIGGED AGAINST
THE FBI CONDUCTED A YEAR-LONG
HIM.
INVESTIGATION INTO MY E-MAILS.
THE FBI CONDUCTED A YEAR-LONG
THEY CONCLUDED THERE WAS NO
INVESTIGATION INTO MY E-MAILS.
CASE.
THEY CONCLUDED THERE WAS NO
HE SAID THE FBI WAS RIGGED.
CASE.
HE LOST THE IOWA CAUCUS, HE LOST
HE SAID THE FBI WAS RIGGED.
THE WISCONSIN PRIMARY.
HE LOST THE IOWA CAUCUS, HE LOST
HE SAID THE REPUBLICAN PRIMARY
THE WISCONSIN PRIMARY.
WAS RIGGED AGAINST HIM.
HE SAID THE REPUBLICAN PRIMARY
THEN TRUMP UNIVERSITY GETS SUED
WAS RIGGED AGAINST HIM.
FOR FRAUD AND RACKETEERING.
THEN TRUMP UNIVERSITY GETS SUED
HE CLAIMS THE COURT SYSTEM AND
FOR FRAUD AND RACKETEERING.
THE FEDERAL JUDGE IS RIGGED
HE CLAIMS THE COURT SYSTEM AND
AGAINST HIM.
THE FEDERAL JUDGE IS RIGGED
THERE WAS EVEN A TIME WHEN HE
AGAINST HIM.
DIDN'T GET AN EMMY FOR HIS TV
THERE WAS EVEN A TIME WHEN HE
PROGRAM THREE YEARS IN A ROW.
DIDN'T GET AN EMMY FOR HIS TV
HE STARTED TWEETING THAT THE
PROGRAM THREE YEARS IN A ROW.
EMMYS WERE RIGGED AGAINST HIM.
HE STARTED TWEETING THAT THE
>> SHOULD HAVE GOTTEN IT.
EMMYS WERE RIGGED AGAINST HIM.
>> THIS IS A MINDSET.
>> SHOULD HAVE GOTTEN IT.
THIS IS HOW DONALD THINKS.
>> THIS IS A MINDSET.
AND IT'S FUNNY, BUT IT'S ALSO
THIS IS HOW DONALD THINKS.
REALLY TROUBLING.
AND IT'S FUNNY, BUT IT'S ALSO
>> OKAY.
REALLY TROUBLING.
>> SO THAT IS NOT THE WAY OUR
>> OKAY.
DEMOCRACY WORKS.
>> SO THAT IS NOT THE WAY OUR
WE HAVE BEEN AROUND FOR 240
DEMOCRACY WORKS.
YEARS.
WE HAVE BEEN AROUND FOR 240
WE HAVE HAD FREE AND FAIR
YEARS.
ELECTIONS, WE HAVE ACCEPTED THE
WE HAVE HAD FREE AND FAIR
OUTCOMES WHEN WE MAY NOT HAVE
ELECTIONS, WE HAVE ACCEPTED THE
LIKED THEM AND THAT'S EXPECTED
OUTCOMES WHEN WE MAY NOT HAVE
OF ANYBODY STAND ON A DEBATE
LIKED THEM AND THAT'S EXPECTED
STAGE DURING A GENERAL ELECTION.
OF ANYBODY STAND ON A DEBATE
YOU KNOW, PRESIDENT OBAMA SAID
STAGE DURING A GENERAL ELECTION.
THE OTHER DAY WHEN YOU'RE
YOU KNOW, PRESIDENT OBAMA SAID
WHINING BEFORE --
THE OTHER DAY WHEN YOU'RE
>> HOLD ON, FOLKS.
WHINING BEFORE --
HOLD ON, FOLKS.
>> HOLD ON, FOLKS.
>> -- IT JUST SHOWS YOU'RE NOT
HOLD ON, FOLKS.
DOWN TO DOING THE JOB.
>> -- IT JUST SHOWS YOU'RE NOT
AND LET'S BE CLEAR ABOUT WHAT HE
DOWN TO DOING THE JOB.
IS SAYING AND WHAT THAT MEANS.
AND LET'S BE CLEAR ABOUT WHAT HE
HE IS DENIGRATING, HE'S TALKING
IS SAYING AND WHAT THAT MEANS.
DOWN OUR DEMOCRACY.
HE IS DENIGRATING, HE'S TALKING
AND I FOR ONE AM APPALLED THAT
DOWN OUR DEMOCRACY.
SOMEBODY WHO IS THE NOMINEE OF
AND I FOR ONE AM APPALLED THAT
ONE OF OUR TWO MAJOR PARTIES
SOMEBODY WHO IS THE NOMINEE OF
WOULD TAKE THAT KIND OF
ONE OF OUR TWO MAJOR PARTIES
POSITION.
WOULD TAKE THAT KIND OF
>> I THINK WHAT THE FBI DID AND
POSITION.
WHAT THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
>> I THINK WHAT THE FBI DID AND
DID INCLUDING MEETING WITH HER
WHAT THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
HUSBAND, THE ATTORNEY GENERAL,
DID INCLUDING MEETING WITH HER
IN THE BACK OF AN AIRPLANE ON
HUSBAND, THE ATTORNEY GENERAL,
THE TARMAC IN ARIZONA, I THINK
IN THE BACK OF AN AIRPLANE ON
IT'S DISGRACEFUL.
THE TARMAC IN ARIZONA, I THINK
I THINK IT'S A DISGRACE.
IT'S DISGRACEFUL.
>> ALL RIGHT.
I THINK IT'S A DISGRACE.
>> I THINK WE NEVER HAD A
>> ALL RIGHT.
SITUATION --
>> I THINK WE NEVER HAD A
>> HOLD ON, FOLKS.
SITUATION --
THIS DOESN'T DO ANY GOOD FOR
>> HOLD ON, FOLKS.
ANYONE.
THIS DOESN'T DO ANY GOOD FOR
LET'S PLEASE CONTINUE THE DEBATE
ANYONE.
AND LET'S MOVE ON TO THE SUBJECT
LET'S PLEASE CONTINUE THE DEBATE
OF FOREIGN HOT SPOTS.
AND LET'S MOVE ON TO THE SUBJECT
THE IRAQI OFFENSIVE TO TAKE BACK
OF FOREIGN HOT SPOTS.
MOSUL HAS BEGUN.
THE IRAQI OFFENSIVE TO TAKE BACK
IF THEY ARE SUCCESSFUL IN
MOSUL HAS BEGUN.
PUSHING ISIS OUT OF THAT CITY
IF THEY ARE SUCCESSFUL IN
AND OUT OF ALL OF IRAQ, THE
PUSHING ISIS OUT OF THAT CITY
QUESTION THEN BECOMES WHAT
AND OUT OF ALL OF IRAQ, THE
HAPPENS THE DAY AFTER?
QUESTION THEN BECOMES WHAT
THAT'S SOMETHING THAT WHICH EVER
HAPPENS THE DAY AFTER?
OF YOU ENDS UP -- WHO EVER OF
THAT'S SOMETHING THAT WHICH EVER
YOU ENDS UP AS PRESIDENT HAS TO
OF YOU ENDS UP -- WHO EVER OF
CONFRONT.
YOU ENDS UP AS PRESIDENT HAS TO
WILL YOU PUT U.S. TROOPS INTO
CONFRONT.
THAT VACUUM TO MAKE SURE THAT
WILL YOU PUT U.S. TROOPS INTO
ISIS DOESN'T COME BACK OR ISN'T
THAT VACUUM TO MAKE SURE THAT
REPLACED BY SOMETHING EVEN
ISIS DOESN'T COME BACK OR ISN'T
WORSE?
REPLACED BY SOMETHING EVEN
SECRETARY CLINTON, YOU GO FIRST
WORSE?
IN THIS SEGMENT.
SECRETARY CLINTON, YOU GO FIRST
YOU HAVE TWO MINUTES.
IN THIS SEGMENT.
>> WELL, I AM ENCOURAGED THAT
YOU HAVE TWO MINUTES.
THERE IS SOME EFFORT LED BY THE
>> WELL, I AM ENCOURAGED THAT
IRAQI ARMY, SUPPORTED BY KURDISH
THERE IS SOME EFFORT LED BY THE
FORCES AND ALSO GIVEN THE HELP
IRAQI ARMY, SUPPORTED BY KURDISH
AND ADVICE FROM THE NUMBER OF
FORCES AND ALSO GIVEN THE HELP
SPECIAL FORCES AND OTHER
AND ADVICE FROM THE NUMBER OF
AMERICANS ON THE GROUND.
SPECIAL FORCES AND OTHER
BUT I WILL NOT SUPPORT PUTTING
AMERICANS ON THE GROUND.
AMERICAN SOLDIERS INTO IRAQ AS
BUT I WILL NOT SUPPORT PUTTING
AN OCCUPYING FORCE.
AMERICAN SOLDIERS INTO IRAQ AS
I DON'T THINK THAT IS IN OUR
AN OCCUPYING FORCE.
INTEREST AND I DON'T THINK THAT
I DON'T THINK THAT IS IN OUR
WOULD BE SMART TO DO.
INTEREST AND I DON'T THINK THAT
IN FACT, CHRIS, I THINK THAT
WOULD BE SMART TO DO.
WOULD BE A BIG RED FLAG WAVING
IN FACT, CHRIS, I THINK THAT
FOR ISIS TO RECONSTITUTE ITSELF.
WOULD BE A BIG RED FLAG WAVING
THE GOAL HERE IS TO TAKE BACK
FOR ISIS TO RECONSTITUTE ITSELF.
MOSUL.
THE GOAL HERE IS TO TAKE BACK
IT WILL BE A HARD FIGHT.
MOSUL.
I HAVE GOT NO ALLUSIONS ABOUT
IT WILL BE A HARD FIGHT.
THAT AND THEN CONTINUE TO PRESS
I HAVE GOT NO ALLUSIONS ABOUT
INTO SYRIA TO BEGIN TO TAKE BACK
THAT AND THEN CONTINUE TO PRESS
AND MOVE ON RAQQAH WHICH IS THE
INTO SYRIA TO BEGIN TO TAKE BACK
ISIS HEADQUARTERS.
AND MOVE ON RAQQAH WHICH IS THE
I AM HOPEFUL THAT THE HARD WORK
ISIS HEADQUARTERS.
THAT AMERICAN MILITARY ADVISERS
I AM HOPEFUL THAT THE HARD WORK
HAVE DONE WILL PAY OFF.
THAT AMERICAN MILITARY ADVISERS
AND THAT'S -- THAT WE WILL SEE A
HAVE DONE WILL PAY OFF.
REAL -- A REALLY SUCCESSFUL
AND THAT'S -- THAT WE WILL SEE A
MILITARY OPERATION.
REAL -- A REALLY SUCCESSFUL
BUT WE KNOW WE'VE GOT LOTS OF
MILITARY OPERATION.
WORK TO DO.
BUT WE KNOW WE'VE GOT LOTS OF
SYRIA WILL REMAIN A HOT BED OF
WORK TO DO.
TERRORISM AS LONG AS THE CIVIL
SYRIA WILL REMAIN A HOT BED OF
WAR AIDED AND ABETTED BY THE
TERRORISM AS LONG AS THE CIVIL
IRANIANS AND THE RUSSIANS
WAR AIDED AND ABETTED BY THE
CONTINUE.
IRANIANS AND THE RUSSIANS
I HAVE SAID, LOOK, WE NEED TO
CONTINUE.
KEEP OUR EYE ON ISIS.
I HAVE SAID, LOOK, WE NEED TO
THAT'S WHY I WANT TO HAVE AN
KEEP OUR EYE ON ISIS.
INTELLIGENCE SURGE THAT PROTECTS
THAT'S WHY I WANT TO HAVE AN
US HERE AT HOME.
INTELLIGENCE SURGE THAT PROTECTS
WHY WE HAVE TO GO AFTER THEM
US HERE AT HOME.
FROM THE AIR, ON THE GROUND,
WHY WE HAVE TO GO AFTER THEM
ONLINE.
FROM THE AIR, ON THE GROUND,
WHY WE HAVE TO MAKE SURE HERE AT
ONLINE.
HOME WE DON'T LET TERRORISMS BUY
WHY WE HAVE TO MAKE SURE HERE AT
WEAPONS IF YOU'RE TOO DANGEROUS
HOME WE DON'T LET TERRORISMS BUY
TO FLY, YOU'RE TOO DANGEROUS TO
WEAPONS IF YOU'RE TOO DANGEROUS
BUY A GUN.
TO FLY, YOU'RE TOO DANGEROUS TO
I'M GOING TO CONTINUE TO PUSH
BUY A GUN.
FOR A NO FLY ZONE AND SAFE
I'M GOING TO CONTINUE TO PUSH
HAVENS WITHIN SYRIA.
FOR A NO FLY ZONE AND SAFE
NOT ONLY TO HELP PROTECT THE
HAVENS WITHIN SYRIA.
SYRIANS AND PREVENT THE CONSTANT
NOT ONLY TO HELP PROTECT THE
OUTFLOW OF REFUGEES BUT TO
SYRIANS AND PREVENT THE CONSTANT
FRANKLY GAIN SOME LEVERAGE ON
OUTFLOW OF REFUGEES BUT TO
BOTH THE SYRIAN GOVERNMENT AND
FRANKLY GAIN SOME LEVERAGE ON
THE RUSSIANS SO THAT PERHAPS WE
BOTH THE SYRIAN GOVERNMENT AND
CAN HAVE THE SERIOUS NEGOTIATION
THE RUSSIANS SO THAT PERHAPS WE
NECESSARY TO BRING THE CONFLICT
CAN HAVE THE SERIOUS NEGOTIATION
TO AN END AND GO FORWARD ON A
NECESSARY TO BRING THE CONFLICT
POLITICAL TRACK.
TO AN END AND GO FORWARD ON A
>> MR. TRUMP, SAME QUESTION.
POLITICAL TRACK.
IF WE ARE ABLE TO PUSH ISIS OUT
>> MR. TRUMP, SAME QUESTION.
OF MOSUL AND OUT OF IRAQ,
IF WE ARE ABLE TO PUSH ISIS OUT
WILL -- WOULD YOU BE WILLING TO
OF MOSUL AND OUT OF IRAQ,
PUT U.S. TROOPS IN THERE TO
WILL -- WOULD YOU BE WILLING TO
PREVENT THEIR RETURN OR
PUT U.S. TROOPS IN THERE TO
SOMETHING ELSE?
PREVENT THEIR RETURN OR
>> LET ME TELL YOU, MOSUL IS SO
SOMETHING ELSE?
SAD.
>> LET ME TELL YOU, MOSUL IS SO
WE HAD MOSUL.
SAD.
BUT WHEN SHE LEFT, WHEN SHE TOOK
WE HAD MOSUL.
EVERYBODY OUT, WE LOST MOSUL.
BUT WHEN SHE LEFT, WHEN SHE TOOK
NOW WE'RE FIGHTING AGAIN TO GET
EVERYBODY OUT, WE LOST MOSUL.
MOSUL.
NOW WE'RE FIGHTING AGAIN TO GET
THE PROBLEM WITH MOSUL AND WHAT
MOSUL.
THEY WANTED TO DO THEY WANTED TO
THE PROBLEM WITH MOSUL AND WHAT
GET THE LEADERS OF ISIS WHO THEY
THEY WANTED TO DO THEY WANTED TO
FELT WERE IN MOSUL.
GET THE LEADERS OF ISIS WHO THEY
ABOUT THREE MONTHS AGO, I
FELT WERE IN MOSUL.
STARTED READING THAT THEY WANT
ABOUT THREE MONTHS AGO, I
TO GET THE LEADERS.
STARTED READING THAT THEY WANT
AND THEY'RE GOING TO ATTACK
TO GET THE LEADERS.
MOSUL.
AND THEY'RE GOING TO ATTACK
WHAT EVER HAPPENED TO THE
MOSUL.
ELEMENT OF SURPRISE?
WHAT EVER HAPPENED TO THE
OKAY?
ELEMENT OF SURPRISE?
WE ANNOUNCE WE'RE GOING AFTER
OKAY?
MOSUL.
WE ANNOUNCE WE'RE GOING AFTER
I HAVE BEEN READING ABOUT GOING
MOSUL.
AFTER MOSUL -- FOR HOW LONG,
I HAVE BEEN READING ABOUT GOING
HILLARY, THREE MONTHS?
AFTER MOSUL -- FOR HOW LONG,
THESE PEOPLE HAVE ALL LEFT.
HILLARY, THREE MONTHS?
THEY HAVE ALL LEFT.
THESE PEOPLE HAVE ALL LEFT.
THE ELEMENT OF SURPRISE.
THEY HAVE ALL LEFT.
DOUGLAS MacARTHUR, GEORGE
THE ELEMENT OF SURPRISE.
PATTON, SPINNING IN THEIR GRAVES
DOUGLAS MacARTHUR, GEORGE
WHEN THEY SEE THE STUPIDITY OF
PATTON, SPINNING IN THEIR GRAVES
OUR COUNTRY.
WHEN THEY SEE THE STUPIDITY OF
SO WE'RE NOW FIGHTING FOR MOSUL
OUR COUNTRY.
THAT WE HAD.
SO WE'RE NOW FIGHTING FOR MOSUL
ALL SHE HAD TO DO WAS STAY THERE
THAT WE HAD.
AND NOW WE'RE GOING IN AGAIN.
ALL SHE HAD TO DO WAS STAY THERE
DO YOU KNOW WHO THE BIG WINNER
AND NOW WE'RE GOING IN AGAIN.
IN MOSUL IS GOING TO BE AFTER WE
DO YOU KNOW WHO THE BIG WINNER
AS A RESULT GET IT AND THE ONLY
IN MOSUL IS GOING TO BE AFTER WE
REASON THEY DID IT IS BECAUSE
AS A RESULT GET IT AND THE ONLY
SHE'S RUNNING FOR THE OFFICE OF
REASON THEY DID IT IS BECAUSE
PRESIDENT.
SHE'S RUNNING FOR THE OFFICE OF
THEY WANT TO LOOK TOUGH.
PRESIDENT.
THEY WANT TO LOOK GOOD.
THEY WANT TO LOOK TOUGH.
VIOLATED THE RED LINE IN THE
THEY WANT TO LOOK GOOD.
SAND AND HE MADE SO MANY
VIOLATED THE RED LINE IN THE
MISTAKES.
SAND AND HE MADE SO MANY
MADE ALL THE MISTAKES THAT'S WHY
MISTAKES.
WE HAVE THE GREAT MIGRATION, BUT
MADE ALL THE MISTAKES THAT'S WHY
SHE WANTED TO LOOK GOOD FOR THE
WE HAVE THE GREAT MIGRATION, BUT
ELECTION.
SHE WANTED TO LOOK GOOD FOR THE
SO THEY'RE GOING IN.
ELECTION.
BUT WHO'S GOING TO GET MOSUL
SO THEY'RE GOING IN.
REALLY?
BUT WHO'S GOING TO GET MOSUL
WE'LL TAKE MOSUL EVENTUALLY.
REALLY?
BUT THE WAY -- BY THE WAY, MUCH
WE'LL TAKE MOSUL EVENTUALLY.
MORE TOUGHER THAN THEY THOUGHT.
BUT THE WAY -- BY THE WAY, MUCH
BUT LEADERS WE WANTED TO GET ARE
MORE TOUGHER THAN THEY THOUGHT.
ALL GONE.
BUT LEADERS WE WANTED TO GET ARE
WHAT DO WE NEED THIS FOR?
ALL GONE.
SO MOSUL IS GOING TO BE A
WHAT DO WE NEED THIS FOR?
WONDERFUL THING AND IRAN SHOULD
SO MOSUL IS GOING TO BE A
WRITE US A LETTER OF THANK YOU,
WONDERFUL THING AND IRAN SHOULD
JUST LIKE THE STUPIDEST OF ALL
WRITE US A LETTER OF THANK YOU,
TIME, A DEAL THAT WILL GIVE IRAN
JUST LIKE THE STUPIDEST OF ALL
ABSOLUTELY NUCLEAR WEAPONS.
TIME, A DEAL THAT WILL GIVE IRAN
IRAN SHOULD WRITE US YET ANOTHER
ABSOLUTELY NUCLEAR WEAPONS.
LETTER SAYING THANK YOU VERY
IRAN SHOULD WRITE US YET ANOTHER
MUCH.
LETTER SAYING THANK YOU VERY
BECAUSE IRAN AS I SAID MANY
MUCH.
YEARS AGO IRAN IS TAKING OVER
BECAUSE IRAN AS I SAID MANY
IRAQ.
YEARS AGO IRAN IS TAKING OVER
SOMETHING THEY HAVE WANTED TO DO
IRAQ.
FOREVER BUT WE HAVE MADE IT SO
SOMETHING THEY HAVE WANTED TO DO
EASY FOR THEM.
FOREVER BUT WE HAVE MADE IT SO
SO WE'RE GOING TO TAKE MOSUL AND
EASY FOR THEM.
DO YOU KNOW WHO'S GOING TO BE
SO WE'RE GOING TO TAKE MOSUL AND
THE BENEFICIARY?
DO YOU KNOW WHO'S GOING TO BE
IRAN.
THE BENEFICIARY?
OH, YEAH, THEY'RE -- I MEAN,
IRAN.
THEY'RE OUTSMARTING -- LOOK,
OH, YEAH, THEY'RE -- I MEAN,
YOU'RE NOT THERE, YOU MIGHT BE
THEY'RE OUTSMARTING -- LOOK,
INVOLVED IN THAT DECISION.
YOU'RE NOT THERE, YOU MIGHT BE
BUT YOU WERE THERE WHEN YOU TOOK
INVOLVED IN THAT DECISION.
EVERYBODY OUT OF MOSUL AND OUT
BUT YOU WERE THERE WHEN YOU TOOK
OF IRAQ.
EVERYBODY OUT OF MOSUL AND OUT
YOU SHOULDN'T HAVE BEEN IN IRAQ,
OF IRAQ.
BUT YOU DID VOTE FOR IT.
YOU SHOULDN'T HAVE BEEN IN IRAQ,
BUT ONCE YOU WERE IN IRAQ YOU
SHOULD HAVE NEVER LEFT THE WAY.
>> YOUR TWO MINUTES ARE UP.
>> THE POINT IS -- IRAN.
>> YOU KNOW, ONCE AGAIN, DONALD
IS IMPLYING THAT HE DIDN'T
SUPPORT THE INVASION OF IRAQ.
I SAID I WAS A MISTAKE.
I HAVE SAID THAT YEARS AGO.
HE HAS CONSISTENTLY DENIED WHAT
IS --
>> WRONG.
>> -- A VERY CLEAR FACT THAT
BEFORE THE INVASION, HE
SUPPORTED IT.
YOU KNOW, I JUST WANT EVERYBODY
TO GO GOOGLE IT.
GOOGLE TRUMP IRAQ, YOU WILL SEE
THE DOZENS OF SOURCES WHICH
VERIFY THAT HE WAS FOR THE
INVASION OF IRAQ.
>> WRONG.
>> AND YOU CAN ACTUALLY HEAR THE
AUDIO OF HIM SAYING THAT.
WHY DOES THAT MATTER?
BECAUSE HE HAS NOT TOLD THE
TRUTH ABOUT THAT POSITION.
I GUESS HE BELIEFS -- BELIEVES
IT MAKES HIM LOOK BETTER TO
CONTRAST AGAINST ME HERE.
IT'S IMPORTANT TO UNDERSTAND THE
INTERPLAY.
MOSUL IS A SUNNI CITY AND ON THE
BORDER OF SYRIA AND WE NEED TO
GO AFTER BAGHDADI, JUST LIKE WE
WENT AFTER BIN LADEN.
WHILE YOU WERE DOING "CELEBRITY
APPRENTICE" AND WE BROUGHT HIM
TO JUSTICE.
WE NEED TO GO AFTER THE
LEADERSHIP, BUT WE NEED TO GET
RID OF THEM, GET RID OF THEIR
FIGHTERS, THEIR ESTIMATED
SEVERAL THOUSAND FIGHTERS IN
MOSUL.
THEY HAVE BEEN DIGGING
UNDERGROUND.
THEY HAVE BEEN PREPARED TO
DEFEND.
IT'S GOING TO BE TOUGH FIGHTING
BUT I THINK WE CAN TAKE BACK
MOSUL AND THEN MOVE ON INTO
SYRIA AND TAKE BACK RAQQAH.
THIS IS WHAT WE HAVE TO DO.
I'M JUST AMAZED THAT HE SEEMS TO
THINK THAT THE IRAQI GOVERNMENT
AND OUR ALLIES AND EVERYBODY
ELSE LAUNCHED THE ATTACK ON
MOSUL TO HELP ME IN THIS
ELECTION.
BUT THAT'S HOW DONALD THINKS.
YOU KNOW, HE ALWAYS -- HE'S
ALWAYS LOOKING FOR SOMETHING --
>> CHRIS, WE DON'T GAIN
ANYTHING.
IRAN IS TAKING OVER IRAQ.
>> SECRETARY CLINTON --
>> IRAN IS TAKING OVER IRAQ.
WE DON'T --
>> SECRETARY CLINTON --
>> WE WOULD HAVE --
>> WAIT WAIT WAIT.
SECRETARY CLINTON, IT'S AN OPEN
DISCUSSION.
>> THEY DID --
>> SECRETARY, PLEASE LET MR.
TRUMP SPEAK.
>> NO, YOU'RE UNFIT.
YOU KNOW, WIKILEAKS JUST CAME
OUT, JOHN PODESTA SAID SOME
HORRIBLE THINGS ABOUT YOU, AND
BOY, WAS HE RIGHT.
HE SAID SOME BEAUTIES AND YOU
KNOW BERNIE SANDERS HE SAID YOU
HAVE BAD JUDGMENT.
YOU DO.
IF YOU THINK THAT GOING IN TO
MOSUL AFTER WE LET THE WORLD
KNOW WE'RE GOING IN, AND ALL OF
THE PEOPLE THAT WE REALLY
WANTED -- THE LEADERS, THEY'RE
ALL GONE, IF YOU THINK THAT WAS
GOOD, THEN YOU DO.
NOW, JOHN PODESTA SAID YOU HAVE
TERRIBLE INSTINCTS AND BERNIE
SANDERS SAID YOU HAVE BAD
JUDGMENT AND I AGREE WITH BOTH.
>> YOU SHOULD ASK BERNIE SANDERS
WHO HE'S SUPPORTING FOR
PRESIDENT --
>> WHICH IS A BIG MISTAKE.
>> HE'S CAMPAIGNING AROUND THE
COUNTRY, AND HE SAID YOU'RE THE
MOST DANGEROUS PRESIDENT TO DO
RUN IN THE UNITED STATES.
AND I AGREE WITH HIM.
>> I WERE BOTH ASKED ABOUT THE
SYRIAN CITY OF ALEPPO AND I WANT
TO FOLLOW UP ON THAT BECAUSE YOU
SAID SEVERAL THINGS IN THAT
DEBATE, WHICH WERE NOT TRUE,
SIR.
YOU SAID THAT ALEPPO HAS
BASICALLY FALLEN.
IN FACT, THERE ARE --
>> IT'S A CATASTROPHE.
>> HAVE YOU SEEN IT?
HAVE YOU SEEN IT?
HAVE YOU SEEN WHAT'S HAPPENED TO
ALEPPO?
>> SIR, CAN I FINISH MY
QUESTION?
>> SO IT'S NOT FALLEN.
TAKE A LOOK AT WHAT'S HAPPENING.
>> THERE ARE MANY PEOPLE BEING
SLAUGHTERED.
>> THEY'RE BEING SLAUGHTERED
BECAUSE OF BAD DECISIONS.
>> IF I MAY FINISH.
YOU HAVE SAID THAT SYRIA AND
RUSSIA ARE BUSY FIGHTING ISIS.
IN FACT, THEY HAVE BEEN THE ONES
WHO HAVE BEEN BOMBING AND
SHELLING EASTERN ALEPPO AND THEY
JUST ANNOUNCED A HUMANITARIAN
PAUSE, IN EFFECT ADMITTING THEY
HAVE BEEN BOMBING AND SHELLING
ALEPPO.
DO YOU WANT TO CLEAR THAT UP?
>> ALEPPO HAS FALLEN FROM THE --
FROM ANY STANDPOINT.
WHAT DO YOU WANT, A SIGNED
DOCUMENT?
IT'S SO SAD WHEN YOU SEE WHAT'S
HAPPENED.
A LOT OF THIS IS BECAUSE OF
HILLARY CLINTON.
BECAUSE WHAT'S HAPPENED IS BY
FIGHTING ASSAD, WHO TURNED OUT
TO BE A LOT TOUGHER THAN SHE
THOUGHT, AND NOW SHE'S GOING TO
SAY OH HE LOVES ASSAD, HE'S JUST
MUCH TOUGHER AND MUCH SMARTER
THAN HER AND OBAMA AND EVERYONE
THOUGHT HE WAS GONE TWO YEARS
AGO, THREE YEARS AGO.
HE ALIGNED WITH RUSSIA.
HE NOW ALIGNED WITH IRAN WHO WE
MADE POWERFUL.
WE GAVE THEM $150 BILLION BACK.
WE GIVE THEM $1.7 BILLION IN
CASH.
I MEAN, CASH.
BUNDLES OF CASH AS BIG AS THIS
STAGE.
WE GAVE THEM $1.7 BILLION.
NOW THEY HAVE -- HE HAS ALIGNED
WITH RUSSIA AND WITH IRAN.
THEY DON'T WANT ISIS, BUT THEY
HAVE OTHER THINGS BECAUSE WE'RE
BACKING -- WE'RE BACKING REBELS.
WHICH DON'T KNOW -- WE DON'T
KNOW WHO THE REBELS ARE.
WE'RE GIVING THEM LOTS OF MONEY,
LOTS OF EVERYTHING.
WE DON'T KNOW WHO THE REBELS ARE
AND WHEN AND IF -- IT'S NOT
GOING TO HAPPEN, BECAUSE YOU
HAVE RUSSIA AND IRAN NOW.
BUT IF THEY EVER DID OVERTHROW
ASSAD -- HE'S A BAD GUY, BUT A
YOU MAY END UP WITH WORSE THAN
ASSAD.
IF SHE DID NOTHING, WE'D BE IN
MUCH BETTER SHAPE.
THIS IS WHAT'S CAUSED THE GREAT
MIGRATION WHERE SHE'S TAKING IN
TENS OF THOUSANDS OF SYRIAN
REFUGEES WHO PROBABLY IN MANY
CASES -- NOT PROBABLY, WHO ARE
DEFINITELY IN MANY CASES ISIS
ALIGNED AND WE NOW HAVE THEM IN
OUR COUNTRY AND WAIT TILL YOU
SEE -- THIS IS GOING TO BE THE
GREAT TROJAN HORSE.
WAIT TILL YOU SEE WHAT HAPPENS
IN THE COMING YEARS.
LOTS OF LUCK, HILLARY.
THANKS A LOT FOR DOING A GREAT
JOB.
>> SECRETARY CLINTON, YOU HAVE
TALKED ABOUT IN THE LAST DEBATE
AND AGAIN TODAY YOU WOULD IMPOSE
A NO FLY ZONE TO TRY TO PROTECT
THE PEOPLE OF ALEPPO AND STOP
THE KILLING THERE.
PRESIDENT OBAMA HAS REFUSED TO
DO THAT BECAUSE HE FEARS IT WILL
DRAW US CLOSER OR DEEPER INTO
THE CONFLICT AND GENERAL
DUNFORD, THE CHAIRMAN OF THE
JOINT CHIEF OF STAFFS SAYS YOU
IMPOSE A NO FLY ZONE, CHANCES
ARE YOU'LL GET INTO A WAR -- HIS
WORDS, WITH SYRIA AND WITH
RUSSIA.
SO THE QUESTION I HAVE IS IF YOU
IMPOSE A NO FLY ZONE, FIRST OF
ALL, HOW DO YOU RESPOND TO THEIR
CONCERNS?
SECONDLY, IF YOU IMPOSE A NO FLY
ZONE AND A RUSSIAN PLANE
VIOLATES THAT, DOES PRESIDENT
CLINTON SHOOT THAT PLANE DOWN?
>> FIRST OF ALL, I THINK THE NO
FLY ZONE CAN SAVE LIVES AND
HASTEN THE END OF THE CONFLICT
AND I'M AWARE OF THE CONCERNS
YOU HAVE EXPRESSED FROM BOTH THE
PRESIDENT AND THE GENERAL.
THIS WOULD NOT BE DONE JUST ON
THE FIRST DAY.
THIS WOULD TAKE A LOT OF
NEGOTIATION AND WE'D -- AND IT
WOULD TAKE MAKING IT CLEAR TO
THE RUSSIANS AND THE SYRIANS
THAT OUR PURPOSE IS TO PROVIDE
SAFE ZONES ON THE GROUND.
WE HAVE HAD MILLIONS OF PEOPLE
LEAVE SYRIA.
AND THOSE MILLIONS OF PEOPLE
INSIDE SYRIA WHO HAVE BEEN
DISLOCATED.
SO I THINK WE COULD STRIKE A
DEAL AND MAKE IT VERY CLEAR TO
THE RUSSIANS AND THE SYRIANS
THAT THIS WAS SOMETHING THAT WE
BELIEVE WAS IN THE BEST INTEREST
OF THE PEOPLE ON THE GROUND IN
SYRIA.
IT WOULD HELP US WITH OUR FIGHT
AGAINST ISIS.
BUT I WANT TO RESPOND TO WHAT
DONALD SAID ABOUT REFUGEES.
HE'S MADE THESE CLAIMS
REPEATEDLY.
I'M NOT GOING TO LET ANYONE INTO
THIS COUNTRY WHO IS NOT VETTED,
WHO WE DO NOT HAVE CONFIDENCE
IN.
BUT I'M NOT GOING TO SLAM THE
DOOR ON WOMEN AND CHILDREN.
THAT PICTURE OF THAT LITTLE
4-YEAR-OLD BOY IN ALEPPO WITH
THE BLOOD COMING DOWN HIS FACE
WHILE HE SAT IN AN AMBULANCE IS
HAUNTING.
AND SO WE ARE GOING TO DO VERY
CAREFUL, THOROUGH VETTING.
THAT DOES NOT SOLVE OUR INTERNAL
CHALLENGES WITH ISIS.
AND OUR NEED TO STOP
RADICALIZATION.
TO WORK WITH AMERICAN MUSLIM
COMMUNITIES WHO ARE ON THE FRONT
LINES TO IDENTIFY AND PREVENT
ATTACKS.
IN FACT, THE KILLER OF THE
DOZENS OF PEOPLE AT THE
NIGHTCLUB IN ORLANDO, THE PULSE
NIGHTCLUB, WAS BORN IN QUEENS.
THE SAME PLACE DONALD WAS BORN.
SO LET'S BE CLEAR ABOUT WHAT THE
THREAT IS AND HOW WE ARE BEST
GOING TO BE ABLE TO MEET IT.
AND YES, THAT EMANATES FROM
SYRIA AND IRAQ, AND I'LL DEFEAT
ISIS AND WE HAVE TO UP OUR GAME
AND DEFEAT THEM AT HOME.
>> I WANT TO --
>> SHE WILL DEFEAT ISIS.
WE SHOULDN'T HAVE LET IT HAPPEN
IN THE FIRST PLACE AND THEY'RE
IN 32 COUNTRIES.
WAIT ONE SECOND.
THEY HAD -- THEY HAD A
CEASE-FIRE THREE WEEKS AGO.
A CEASE-FIRE, THE UNITED STATES,
RUSSIA, SYRIA.
AND DURING THE CEASE-FIRE RUSSIA
TOOK OVER VAST SWATCHES OF LAND
AND THEN SAID WE DON'T WANT THE
CEASE-FIRE ANYMORE.
WE ARE SO OUTPLAYED ON MISSILES,
ON CEASE-FIRES.
THEY ARE OUTPLAYED.
SHE WASN'T THERE I ASSUME SHE
HAD NOTHING TO DO WITH IT.
BUT OUR COUNTRY IS SO OUTPLAYED
BY PUTIN AND BY ASSAD AND BY THE
WAY, BY IRAN.
NOBODY CAN BELIEVE HOW STUPID
OUR LEADERSHIP IS.
>> MR. TRUMP, SECRETARY CLINTON,
NO, WE NEED TO MOVE ON TO OUR
FINAL SEGMENT.
THAT IS THE NATIONAL DEBT WHICH
HAS NOT BEEN DISCUSSED UNTIL
TONIGHT.
OUR NATIONAL DEBT IS A SHARE OF
THE ECONOMY, OUR GDP, IS NOW
77%.
THAT'S THE HIGHEST SINCE JUST
AFTER WORLD WAR II.
BUT THE NONPARTISAN COMMITTEE
FOR RESPONSIBLE FOR FEDERAL
BUDGET SAYS SECRETARY CLINTON,
UNDER YOUR PLAN, DEBT WOULD RISE
TO 86% OF GDP OVER THE NEXT DEN
YEARS.
MR. TRUMP UNDER YOUR PLAN, THEY
SAY IT WOULD RISE TO 105% OF GDP
OVER THE NEXT TEN YEARS.
THE QUESTION IS, WHY ARE BOTH OF
YOU IGNORING THIS PROBLEM?
MR. TRUMP, YOU GO FIRST.
>> I SAID BECAUSE I'M GOING TO
CREATE TREMENDOUS JOBS AND WE'RE
BRINGING GDP FROM REALLY 1%
WHICH IS WHAT IT IS NOW, AND IF
SHE GOT IN IT WOULD BE LESS THAN
ZERO.
BUT WE'RE BRINGING IT FROM 1% UP
TO 4%.
I ACTUALLY THINK WE CAN GO
HIGHER THAN 4%.
I THINK YOU CAN GO TO 5% OR 6%.
IF WE DO, YOU DON'T HAVE TO
BOTHER ASKING YOUR QUESTION.
BECAUSE WE HAVE A TREMENDOUS
MACHINE.
WE WILL HAVE CREATED A
TREMENDOUS ECONOMIC MACHINE ONCE
AGAIN.
TO DO THAT WE'RE TAKING BACK
JOBS.
WE'RE NOT GOING TO LET OUR
COMPANIES BE RAIDED BY OTHER
COUNTRIES.
WE DON'T MAKE OUR PRODUCT
ANYMORE.
IT'S VERY SAD.
BUT I'M GOING TO CREATE A -- THE
KIND OF A COUNTRY THAT WE WERE
FROM THE STANDPOINT OF INDUSTRY.
WE USED TO BE THERE.
WE HAVE GIVEN IT UP.
WE HAVE BECOME VERY, VERY
SLOPPY.
WE HAVE HAD PEOPLE THAT ARE
POLITICAL HACKS MAKING THE
BIGGEST DEALS IN THE WORLD.
BIGGER THAN COMPANIES.
YOU TAKE THE BIG COMPANIES,
THESE TRADE DEALS ARE FAR BIGGER
THAN THE COMPANIES AND YET WE
DON'T USE THE GREAT LEADERS MANY
OF WHOM BACK ME AND MANY OF WHOM
BACK HILLARY.
WE DON'T USE THOSE PEOPLE.
THEY'RE THE GREATEST NEGOTIATORS
IN THE WORLD.
WE HAVE TO USE THEM TO NEGOTIATE
OUR TRADE DEALS.
WE USE POLITICAL HACKS.
WE USE PEOPLE THAT GET THE
POSITION BECAUSE THEY GAVE --
THEY MADE A CAMPAIGN
CONTRIBUTION.
THEY'RE DEALING WITH CHINA AND
PEOPLE THAT ARE VERY MUCH
SMARTER THAN THEY ARE.
WE HAVE TO USE OUR GREAT PEOPLE.
BUT THAT BEING SAID, WE WILL
CREATE AN ECONOMIC MACHINE THE
LIKES OF WHICH WE HAVEN'T SEEN
IN MANY DECADES.
AND PEOPLE, CHRIS, WILL AGAIN GO
BACK TO WORK AND THEY'LL MAKE A
LOT OF MONEY.
AND WILL HAVE COMPANIES THAT
WILL GROW AND EXPAND AND START
FROM NEW.
>> SECRETARY CLINTON?
>> WELL, FIRST, WHEN I HEAR
DONALD TALK LIKE THAT AND KNOW
THAT HIS SLOGAN IS MAKE AMERICA
GREAT AGAIN I WONDER WHEN HE
THOUGHT AMERICA WAS GREAT, AND
BEFORE HE RUSHES AND SAYS, YOU
KNOW, BEFORE YOU AND PRESIDENT
OBAMA WERE THERE I THINK IT'S
IMPORTANT TO RECOGNIZE THAT HE
HAS BEEN CRITICIZING OUR
GOVERNMENT FOR DECADES.
YOU KNOW, BACK IN 1987, HE TOOK
OUT A $100,000 AD IN "THE NEW
YORK TIMES" DURING THE TIME WHEN
PRESIDENT REAGAN WAS PRESIDENT,
AND BASICALLY SAID EXACTLY WHAT
HE JUST SAID NOW.
THAT WE WERE THE LAUGHINGSTOCK
OF THE WORLD.
HE WAS CRITICIZING PRESIDENT
REAGAN.
THIS IS THE WAY DONALD THINKS
ABOUT HIMSELF.
PUTS HIMSELF INTO YOU KNOW, THE
MIDDLE AND SAYS, YOU KNOW, I
ALONE CAN FIX IT AS HE SAID ON
THE CONVENTION STAGE.
BUT IF YOU LOOK AT THE DEBT
WHICH IS THE ISSUE YOU ASKED
ABOUT, CHRIS, I PAY FOR
EVERYTHING I'M PROPOSING.
I DO NOT ADD A PENNY TO THE
NATIONAL DEBT.
I TAKE THAT VERY SERIOUSLY
BECAUSE I DO THINK IT'S ONE OF
THE ISSUES WE'VE GOT TO COME TO
GRIPS WITH.
SO WHEN I TALK ABOUT HOW WE'RE
GOING TO PAY FOR EDUCATION, HOW
WE'RE GOING TO INVEST IN
INFRASTRUCTURE, HOW WE'RE GOING
TO GET THE COST OF PRESCRIPTION
DRUGS DOWN AND A LOT OF THE
OTHER ISSUES THAT PEOPLE TALK TO
ME ABOUT ALL THE TIME, I'VE MADE
IT VERY CLEAR WE ARE GOING WHERE
THE MONEY IS.
WE ARE GOING TO ASK THE WEALTHY
AND CORPORATIONS TO PAY THEIR
FAIR SHARE AND THERE'S NO
EVIDENCE WHATSOEVER THAT THAT
WILL SLOW DOWN OR DIMINISH OUR
GROWTH.
IN FACT, JUST THE OPPOSITE.
WE'LL HAVE WHAT ECONOMISTS CALL
MIDDLE OUT GROWTH.
WE HAVE TO GET BACK TO
REBUILDING THE MIDDLE CLASS.
THE FAMILIES OF AMERICA, THAT'S
WHERE GROWTH WILL COME FROM.
THAT'S WHY I WANT TO INVEST IN
YOU.
I WANT TO INVEST IN YOUR
FAMILIES.
I THINK THAT'S THE SMARTEST WAY
TO GROW THE ECONOMY, TO MAKE THE
ECONOMY FAIRER.
AND WE JUST HAVE A BIG
DISAGREEMENT ABOUT THIS.
IT MAY BE BECAUSE OF OUR
EXPERIENCES.
HE STARTED OFF WITH HIS DAD AS A
MILLIONAIRE.
>> WE HAVE HEARD THIS BEFORE.
>> MY DAD WAS A SMALL BUSINESS
MAN.
>> WE HAVE HEARD THIS BEFORE.
>> I THINK IT AFFECTS HOW WHICH
SEE THE WORLD AND WHAT WE WANT
TO DO WITH THE ECONOMY.
>> TIME.
>> THANK YOU, HILLARY.
CAN I RESPOND?
>> WELL, NO.
>> BECAUSE I --
>> WE'RE RUNNING OUT OF TIME.
>> I DID DISAGREE WITH RONALD
REAGAN VERY STRONGLY ON TRADE.
WE SHOULD HAVE BEEN MUCH TOUGHER
ON TRADE EVEN THEN.
I HAVE BEEN WAITING FOR YEARS
AND FRANKLY NOW WE'LL DO IT
RIGHT.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THE ONE LAST AREA I WANT TO GET
INTO WITH YOU IN THIS DEBATE IS
THE FACT THAT THE BIGGEST DRIVER
OF OUR DEBT IS ENTITLEMENTS
WHICH IS 60% OF ALL FEDERAL
SPENDING.
THE COMMITTEE FOR RESPONSIBLE
FEDERAL BUDGET HAS LOOKED AT
BOTH OF YOUR PLANS AND THEY SAY
NEITHER OF YOU HAS A SERIOUS
PLAN THAT IS GOING TO SOLVE THE
FACT THAT MEDICARE'S GOING TO
RUN OUT OF MONEY IN THE 2020s,
SOCIAL SECURITY WILL RUN OUT OF
MONEY IN THE 2030s AND AT THAT
TIME, RECIPIENTS ARE GOING TO
TAKE HUGE CUTS IN THEIR
BENEFITS.
SO IN EFFECT, THE FINAL QUESTION
I WANT TO ASK YOU THIS QUESTION
IN THIS REGARD IS, MR. TRUMP,
WOULD YOU MAKE A DEAL TO SAVE
MEDICARE AND SOCIAL SECURITY
THAT INCLUDED BOTH TAX INCREASES
AND BENEFIT CUTS IN EFFECT A
GRAND BARGAIN ON ENTITLEMENTS?
>> I'M CUTTING TAXES, WE'RE
GOING TO GROW THE ECONOMY.
IT WILL GROW AT A RECORD RATE.
>> THAT'S NOT GOING TO HELP IN
THE ENTITLEMENTS.
>> IT WILL TOTALLY HELP YOU.
ONE THING WE HAVE TO DO IS
REPEAL AND REPLACE THE DISASTER
KNOWN AS OBAMACARE.
IT IS DESTROYING OUR COUNTRY.
IT IS DESTROYING OUR BUSINESSES,
SMALL BUSINESSES AND OUR BIG
BUSINESSES.
WE HAVE TO REPEAL AND REPLACE
OBAMACARE.
YOU TAKE A LOOK AT THE KIND OF
NUMBERS THAT THAT WILL COST US
IN THE YEAR '17.
IT'S DISASTER.
IF WE DON'T REPEAL AND REPLACE.
IT'S PROBABLY GOING TO DIE OF
ITS OWN WEIGHT.
BUT OBAMACARE HAS TO GO.
IT'S -- THE PREMIUMS ARE GOING
UP 60, 70, 80%.
NEXT YEAR OVER 100%.
I'M GLAD THAT THE PREMIUMS -- AT
LEAST THE PEOPLE SEE WHAT
HAPPENS BECAUSE SHE WANTS TO
MAKE IT EVEN WORSE AND IT CAN'T
GET ANY WORSE.
BAD HEALTH CARE AT THE MOST
EXPENSIVE PRICE.
WE HAVE TO REPEAL AND REPLACE
OBAMACARE.
>> AND SECRETARY CLINTON, SAME
QUESTION.
BECAUSE AT THIS POINT, SOCIAL
SECURITY AND MEDICARE ARE GOING
TO RUN OUT, THE TRUST FUNDS ARE
GOING TO RUN OUT OF MONEY.
WILL YOU AS PRESIDENT
ENTERTAIN -- WILL YOU CONSIDER A
GRAND BARGAIN, A DEAL THAT
INCLUDES BOTH TAX INCREASES AND
BENEFIT CUTS TO TRY TO SAVE BOTH
PROGRAMS?
>> WELL, CHRIS, I'M ON RECORD AS
SAYING THAT WE NEED TO PUT MORE
MONEY IN THE SOCIAL SECURITY
TRUST FUND.
THAT'S PART OF MY COMMITMENT TO
RAISE TAXES ON THE WEALTHY.
MY SOCIAL SECURITY, PAYROLL
CONTRIBUTION WILL GO UP AS WILL
DONALD'S, ASSUMING HE CAN'T
FIGURE OUT HOW TO GET OUT OF IT.
BUT WHAT WE WANT TO DO IS TO
REPLENISH THE --
>> SUCH A NASTY WOMAN.
>> -- BY MAKING SURE THAT WE
HAVE SUFFICIENT RESOURCES THAT
WILL COME FROM RAISING THE CAP
OR FINDING OTHER WAYS TO GET
MORE MONEY INTO IT.
I WILL NOT CUT BENEFITS.
I WANT TO ENHANCE BENEFITS FOR
LOW INCOME WORKERS AND FOR WOMEN
WHO HAVE BEEN DISADVANTAGED BY
THE CURRENT SOCIAL SECURITY
SYSTEM.
BUT WHAT DONALD IS PROPOSING
WITH THESE MASSIVE TAX CUTS WILL
RESULT IN A $20 TRILLION
ADDITIONAL NATIONAL DEBT.
THAT WILL HAVE DIRE CONSEQUENCES
FOR SOCIAL SECURITY AND
MEDICARE.
I'LL SAY SOMETHING ABOUT THE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT WHICH HE
WANTS TO REPEAL.
IT EXTENDED THE SOLVENCY OF THE
MEDICARE TRUST FUND.
SO IF REPEALS IT, THE PROBLEM
GETS WORSE.
>> YOUR HUSBAND DISAGREES WITH
YOU.
>> WE HAVE TO GET COSTS DOWN,
INCREASE VALUE AND EMPHASIZE
WELLNESS.
I HAVE A PLAN FOR DOING THAT.
I THINK THAT WE WILL BE ABLE TO
GET ENTITLEMENT SPENDING UNDER
CONTROL WITH MORE RESOURCES.
>> THIS IS THE FINAL TIME
PROBABLY TO BOTH OF YOUR DELIGHT
THAT YOU'RE ON THE STAGE
TOGETHER IN THIS CAMPAIGN.
I WOULD LIKE TO END IT ON A
POSITIVE NOTE.
YOU HAD NOT AGREED TO CLOSING
STATEMENTS, BUT IT SEEMS TO ME
IN A FUNNY WAY IT MAY MAKE IT
MORE INTERESTING BECAUSE YOU
HAVEN'T PREPARED CLOSING
STATEMENTS.
WE'LL PUT A CLOCK UP, A MINUTE,
AS THE FINAL QUESTION AND THE
FINAL DEBATE, TO TELL THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE WHY THEY SHOULD
ELECT YOU TO BE THE NEXT
PRESIDENT.
THIS IS ANOTHER NEW MINISEGMENT.
MRS. CLINTON, YOU MAY GO FIRST.
>> I WOULD LIKE TO SAY TO
EVERYONE WATCHING TONIGHT THAT
I'M REACHING OUT TO ALL
AMERICANS, DEMOCRATS,
REPUBLICANS, INDEPENDENTS,
BECAUSE WE NEED EVERYBODY TO
HELP MAKE OUR COUNTRY WHAT IT
SHOULD BE.
TO GROW THE ECONOMY, TO MAKE IT
FAIRER, TO MAKE IT WORK FOR
EVERYONE.
WE NEED YOUR TALENTS, YOUR
SKILLS, YOUR COMMITMENTS, YOUR
ENERGY AND YOUR AMBITION.
I HAVE BEEN PRIVILEGED TO BE
THE -- TO SEE THE PRESIDENCY UP
CLOSE.
I KNOW THE AWESOME
RESPONSIBILITY OF PROTECTING OUR
COUNTRY AND THE INCREDIBLE
OPPORTUNITY OF WORKING TO TRY TO
MAKE LIFE BETTER FOR ALL OF YOU.
I HAVE MADE THE CAUSE OF
CHILDREN AND FAMILIES REALLY MY
LIFE'S WORK.
THAT'S WHAT MY MISSION WILL BE
IN THE PRESIDENCY.
I WILL STAND UP FOR FAMILIES
AGAINST POWERFUL INTERESTS,
AGAINST CORPORATIONS.
I WILL DO EVERYTHING THAT I CAN
TO MAKE SURE THAT YOU HAVE GOOD
JOBS, WITH RISING INCOMES, THAT
YOUR KIDS HAVE GOOD EDUCATIONS
FROM PRESCHOOL THROUGH COLLEGE.
I HOPE YOU WILL GIVE ME A CHANCE
TO SERVE AS YOUR PRESIDENT.
>> SECRETARY CLINTON, THANK YOU.
MR. TRUMP.
>> SHE'S RAISING THE MONEY FROM
THE PEOPLE SHE WANTS TO CONTROL.
DOESN'T WORK THAT WAY.
BUT WHEN I STARTED THIS
CAMPAIGN, I STARTED IT VERY
STRONGLY, IT'S CALLED MAKE
AMERICA GREAT AGAIN.
WE'RE GOING TO MAKE AMERICA
GREAT.
WE HAVE A DEPLETED MILITARY.
IT HAS TO BE HELPED, HAS TO BE
FIXED.
WE HAVE THE GREATEST PEOPLE ON
EARTH IN OUR MILITARY.
WE DON'T TAKE CARE OF OUR
VETERANS.
WE TAKE CARE OF ILLEGAL
IMMIGRANTS PEOPLE THAT COME INTO
THE COUNTRY ILLEGALLY BETTER
THAN WE TAKE CARE OF OUR VETS
THAT CAN'T HAPPEN.
OUR POLICEMEN AND WOMEN ARE
DISRESPECTED.
WE NEED LAW AND ORDER AND WE
NEED JUSTICE TOO.
OUR INNER CITIES ARE A DISASTER.
YOU GET SHOT WALKING TO THE
STORE, THEY HAVE NO EDUCATION,
THEY HAVE NO JOBS.
I WILL DO MORE FOR
AFRICAN-AMERICANS AND LATINOS
THAN SHE CAN DO IN TEN
LIFETIMES.
ALL SHE'S DONE IS TALK TO THE
LIFETIMES AND TO THE LATINOS BUT
THEY GET THE VOTE, THEY COME
BACK AND SAY, SEE YOU IN FOUR
YEARS.
WE ARE GOING TO MAKE AMERICA
STRONG AGAIN AND WE ARE GOING TO
MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN AND IT
HAS TO START NOW.
WE CANNOT TAKE FOUR MORE YEARS
OF BARACK OBAMA AND THAT'S WHAT
YOU GET WITH HER.
>> THANK YOU BOTH.
HOLD ON A MOMENT, FOLKS.
SECRETARY CLINTON, MR. TRUMP,
THANK YOU FOR BOTH FOR
PARTICIPATING, IN ALL THREE OF
THESE DEBATES.
THAT BRINGS TO AN END THIS
YEAR'S DEBATES SPONSORED BY THE
COMMISSION ON PRESIDENTIAL
DEBATES.
WE WANT TO THANK THE UNIVERSITY
OF LAS VEGAS FOR HAVING US.
WHILE MILLIONS HAVE ALREADY
VOTED, ELECTION DAY, NOVEMBER
8th, IS JUST 20 DAYS AWAY.
ONE THING EVERYONE CAN AGREE
ON -- WE HOPE YOU GO VOTE.
IT IS ONE OF THE HONORS AND
OBLIGATIONS OF LIVING IN THIS
GREAT COUNTRY.
THANK YOU AND GOOD NIGHT.
>> WELL, IT WAS BILLED AS THE
FINAL DEBATE, BUT THERE MIGHT
HAVE BEEN TWO DEBATES HERE
TONIGHT.
THERE WAS THE FIRST 30 MINUTES
THAT COULD BE DESCRIBED AS
SUBDUED.
THEN THERE WAS THE NEXT HOUR.
NOT SO SUBDUED.
THIS IS LESTER HOLT ALONG WITH
CHUCK TODD, SAVANNAH GUTHRIE AND
TOM BROKAW AS WE BEGIN TO
DISCUSS WHAT JUST HAPPENED
THERE.
ESPECIALLY IN THE LAST HOUR OF
THE DEBATE.
CHUCK?
>> WELL, LOOK, OVERALL, THIS WAS
THE CLOSEST THING WE HAD TO THE
NORMAL DEBATE.
OKAY?
THERE WAS ISSUE QUESTIONS, THERE
WAS ISSUE BACK AND FORTH.
SO THERE WAS MOMENTS THERE WHERE
IT ALMOST FELT LIKE A NORMAL
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION.
AND THE FIRST 30 MINUTES IN MANY
WAYS IF YOU'RE A REPUBLICAN
RUNNING DOWN THE BALLOT, YOU
WERE THRILLED BECAUSE IT WAS THE
SUPREME COURT AND IT WAS SORT OF
THE PUTTING THE STAKES OF WHY
THIS IS IMPORTANT FOR
REPUBLICANS TO GET OUT THE VOTE,
SO IF YOU'RE A DOWN BALLOT
REPUBLICAN YOU WERE RELIEVED
THAT TRUMP DIDN'T HAVE A BAD
FIRST 30 MINUTES.
BUT I HAVE TO TELL YOU THAT
HILLARY CLINTON HAD SUBSTANCE IN
EVERY ANSWER.
HAD SORT OF DETAILED POLICY
PROPOSALS SHE WOULD TALK ABOUT.
HE WOULD ANSWER EVERY
QUESTION -- 10% OF THE ANSWER
WOULD SOUND GOOD IN THE MOMENT.
I THINK IT'S GOING TO NOT GO
OVER WELL WITH THE FACT
CHECKERS.
IT'S NOT GOING TO PLAY WELL THE
NEXT DAY.
BECAUSE HE WOULD ALMOST SAY A
GOOD LINE AND THEN REPEAT IT
OVER AND OVER AGAIN.
HE DIDN'T SEEM TO HAVE A LOT OF
SUBSTANCE.
SO I THINK IT MIGHT LOOK AND
FEEL GOOD IN MOMENT, BUT IT MAY
NOT SURVIVE FOR HIM.
>> ONE OF THE MORE MEMORABLE
LINES WAS THAT NASTY WOMAN AT
THE END.
>> HE INTERJECTS HE LEANS INTO
THE MICROPHONE AND SAYS SUCH A
NASTY WOMAN.
SUCH A NASTY WOMAN.
I THINK THAT WILL BE A MOMENT
THAT PEOPLE LOOK BACK AT THIS
DEBATE.
I MEAN, LOOK, IF YOU DON'T LIKE
HILLARY CLINTON, IF YOU WERE IN
DONALD TRUMP'S BASE, YOU ARE
PROBABLY SAYING, AMEN TO THE TV
AND CHEERING RIGHT THEN.
BUT THIS IS A CANDIDATE WHO HAS
A DEFICIT WITH WOMEN.
WHO NEEDS REPUBLICAN MODERATE
WOMEN TO COME OVER INTO HIS
CORNER.
AND IT JUST -- IT WAS SO
STRIKING TO SEE HIM ACTUALLY GO
THERE.
IT'S NOT A SUBSTANTIVE --
>> OF ALL QUESTIONS TO DO IT ON,
LIKE ON SOCIAL SECURITY AND
MEDICARE.
LIKE WHAT ARE -- IT WAS BIZARRE.
>> THERE WAS ANOTHER MOMENT THAT
PEOPLE WILL BE TALKING ABOUT,
AND WE HAVE FOR THE LAST WEEK
AND A HALF OR SO HEARD DONALD
TRUMP TALK ABOUT THE LEGITIMACY
OF THE ELECTION VOTER FRAUD.
THE QUESTION WAS PUT TO HIM
ABOUT WHETHER HE'D ACCEPT THE
OUTCOME.
NOT THE FIRST TIME THIS QUESTION
HAS BEEN ASKED.
WE PUT A COUPLE OF THE MOMENTS
TOGETHER.
LET'S PLAY IT AND TALK ABOUT IT.
>> DO YOU MAKE THE SAME
COMMITMENT THAT YOU WILL
ABSOLUTELY, SIR, THAT YOU'LL
ABSOLUTELY ACCEPT THE RESULT OF
THIS ELECTION?
>> I WILL LOOK AT IT AT THE
TIME.
I'M NOT LOOKING AT ANYTHING NOW.
I'LL LOOK AT IT AT THE TIME.
>> ARE YOU SAYING YOU'RE NOT
PREPARED NOW --
>> WHAT I'M SAYING IS I'LL TELL
YOU AT THE TIME.
I'LL KEEP YOU IN SUSPENSE.
>> LET ME RESPOND TO THAT,
CHRIS.
THAT'S HORRIFYING.
EVERY TIME THAT DONALD THINKS
THINGS ARE NOT GOING IN HIS
DIRECTION HE CLAIMS WHATEVER IT
IS IS RIGGED AGAINST HIM.
>> LET'S PUT THAT IN PERSPECTIVE
NOW.
IN THE FIRST DEBATE THE SAME
QUESTION WAS ASKED AND TRUMP'S
ANSWER WAS IF SHE WINS I WILL
ABSOLUTELY SUPPORT HER.
A FEW HOURS AGO BEFORE THE
DEBATE HIS RUNNING MATE GOVERNOR
PENCE SAID ON CNN WILL CERTAINLY
ACCEPT THE OUTCOME OF THIS
ELECTION.
LET ME BRING IN NICOLLE WALLACE
WHO WORKED IN THE BUSH WHITE
HOUSE AND THE McCAIN CAMPAIGN.
WHEN YOU HEARD THAT, WHAT DID
YOU THINK OF NOVEMBER 8th AND
9th AND THE DAYS BEYOND?
>> WELL, MY STOMACH SORT OF SANK
FOR THOSE PEOPLE WHO HAVE
IMPROVED UPON DONALD TRUMP'S
FIRST DEBATE TREMENDOUSLY.
THIS WAS BY HIS FIRST
PERFORMANCE AND IT WAS HER BEST
PERFORMANCE.
HE BY REFUSING TO SAY HE'D
ACCEPT THE RESULTS OF THE
ELECTION ON NOVEMBER 8th, HE MAY
HAVE LAID DOWN IN HIS OWN COFFIN
WITH A HAMMER AND NAIL AND
POUNDED IT IN HIMSELF.
NO VOTER WANTS TO HEAR THAT A
PARTICIPANT WHO HAS BEEN VERY --
HE WON THE PRIMARY.
HOW COULD THE PRIMARY HAVE NOT
BEEN RIGGED AGAINST HIM IF HE
WON SO OVERWHELMINGLY?
TO SAY THAT HE WILL NOT ACCEPT
THE RESULTS OF A HARD FOUGHT AND
ROBUST ELECTION WHERE HE'S BEEN
PRETTY CLOSE IN THE POLLS UNTIL
VERY RECENTLY IS REALLY -- JUST
A DISQUALIFYING STATEMENT IN THE
VIEWS OF MANY VOTERS AND THE
TRAGEDY FOR HIS BASE OF SUPPORT
WHICH IS VERY AGITATED AND VERY
SORT OF ANXIOUS TO SEE HIM DO
BETTER IS THEY GOT THAT IMPROVED
PERFORMANCE ON QUESTIONS LIKE
TRADE.
THEY WILL LIKE WHAT THEY HEARD
FROM HIM ON THE ECONOMY.
AND THEY WILL LIKE FROM HIS
OTHER ANSWERS.
BUT SAYING HE WON'T ACCEPT THE
RESULTS OF THE ELECTION THAT WAS
JUST A LIGHTS OUT MOMENT IN
AMERICAN POLITICS.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
I WANT TO GO NOW TO JOHN
PODESTA, THE CAMPAIGN CHAIRMAN.
THANK YOU FOR JOINING US IN THE
SPIN ROOM.
I DO NOT HEAR YOU.
CAN YOU --
MR. PODESTA, DO YOU HEAR ME NOW?
>> I CAN HEAR YOU.
>> YEAH, WE HAVE YOU NOW.
I APOLOGIZE FOR THAT.
GIVE ME YOUR SENSE OF WHAT WE
JUST SAW HERE.
THE LOW MOMENTS AND THE HIGH
MOMENTS FOR YOU.
>> WELL, LOOK, I THINK HILLARY
CAME IN NOT PREPARING TO PLAY IT
SAFE.
SHE WENT RIGHT AT -- TWO THINGS.
ONE IS TO MAKE THE CASE ABOUT
WHAT SHE WANTED TO DO FOR THE
ECONOMY.
ON IMMIGRATION.
ON THOSE SECTIONS THAT WERE ON
ISSUES I THINK SHE REALLY SOARED
TONIGHT.
SHE ALSO WANTED TO MAKE THE CASE
THAT HE WAS UNPREPARED AN UNFIT.
AND I THINK THAT ANSWER THAT
NICOLE JUST TALKED ABOUT HE
WOULDN'T ACCEPT THE -- OR WAIT
TO SEE WHETHER HE WOULD ACCEPT
IT, WAS A LOW MOMENT FOR TRUMP.
>> I HAVE TO ASK YOU, THE FIRST
HALF HOUR OF THE DEBATE, DONALD
TRUMP CAME OUT RATHER SUBDUED.
WHAT DID YOU THINK AT THAT
MOMENT?
DID YOU THINK YOU HAD A MUCH
DIFFERENT DEBATE THAN THE ONE
YOU PLANNED FOR?
>> I THINK BECAUSE CHRIS STARTED
OFF WITH ISSUES ON THE SUPREME
COURT, PERHAPS HE THREW DONALD
TRUMP OFF HIS GAME PLAN.
OBVIOUSLY THAT WAS AN ISSUE THAT
HILLARY WAS FAMILIAR WITH.
I THINK SHE SCORED BIG WITH
STANDING UP FOR DEFENDING
REPRODUCTIVE RIGHTS.
STANDING UP FOR LGBT RIGHTS.
BUT I THINK HE WAS A LITTLE BIT
RATTLED IN THAT SECTION BECAUSE
HE DIDN'T REALLY KNOW WHAT HE
WANTED TO TALK ABOUT.
BUT HE WAS DEFINITELY A
DIFFERENT DONALD TRUMP.
BUT HE REALLY GOT CRANKED UP AT
THE END.
HE ENDED WHEN CHRIS GAVE HIM
THAT LAST MINUTE TO GIVE A
CLOSING ARGUMENT, AND HE KIND OF
ENDED WHERE HE BEGAN THIS
CAMPAIGN IN A VERY DARK PLACE.
>> I JUST THINK THAT FROM A --
AN OVERALL POINT OF VIEW THAT
BEGINNING WITH YOUR DEBATE, AND
AT THE END OF THREE DEBATES WE
HAVE A VERY GOOD IDEA ABOUT WHO
THESE CANDIDATES ARE, WHAT THEY
REPRESENT, WHAT THEIR FEELINGS
ARE, HOW THEY'D CONDUCT
THEMSELVES.
I THINK THAT'S VERY IMPORTANT
AND THERE ARE A LOT OF
REPUBLICANS WHO ARE HOLDING
THEIR HANDS OVER THEIR HEADS
SAYING, HE DIDN'T GO BACK TO
SAYING HE WOULD HAVE TO LOOK AT
THE ELECTION AGAIN, DID HE?
BECAUSE THEY HAVE ALL WALKED
AWAY FROM THAT.
AND YOU HAD A REAL SENSE OF
WHERE THEY ARE IN DETERMINES OF
DETAIL -- IN TERMS OF DETAIL ON
TAX REFORM, FOR EXAMPLE.
OBAMACARE, THE SUPREME COURT.
I THOUGHT THAT DONALD TRUMP
NIPPED HER ON TAKING MONEY FROM
THE FOUNDATION FOR SAUDI ARABIA,
BUT BY AND LARGE, IF YOU LOOK AT
TWO CANDIDATES ONE HAD A VERY
STRONG AGENDA, ACUTELY ARGUED
AND THE OTHER ONE IS DOING FROM
WHAT WE HAVE BEEN SEEING, GOING
BACK OVER THE PHRASES.
I DON'T KNOW HOW IT WILL CHANGE
THE EQUATION.
>> A QUESTION FROM CHUCK TODD.
>> I KNOW IT'S DISCONCERTING TO
SEE ALL OF YOUR PRIVATE E-MAILS
SUDDENLY BE MADE PUBLIC, BUT LET
ME ASK YOU THIS QUESTION.
THE PUBLIC IS GOING -- IS
DIGESTING THIS.
IS READING THESE E-MAILS.
THEY SEE SORT OF THE SAUSAGE
MAKING OF WATCHING A CAMPAIGN
DECIDE OKAY, DO WE RUN -- HOW
FAR TO THE LEFT DO WE RUN, HOW
FAR TO THE CENTER?
WHAT SHOULD VOTERS TAKE AWAY
FROM WHAT THEY'RE READING ABOUT?
I KNOW YOU DON'T WANT TO CONFIRM
THEM, BUT THERE'S A GENERAL
SENSE THAT THEY'RE LEARNING THAT
OKAY, WHAT IS SHE?
IS SHE A CENTRIST, A
PROGRESSIVE?
IS SHE CALCULATING?
WHAT SHOULD VOTERS LEARN FROM
THIS?
>> YOU KNOW, THE LAST TIME WE
WERE IN LAS VEGAS FOR A DEBATE
WAS IN THE PRIMARIES AND SHE GOT
THE QUESTION ABOUT WHERE ARE YOU
ON THE POLITICAL SPECTRUM, SHE'S
A PROGRESSIVE WHO LIKES TO GET
RESULTS.
THAT'S WHAT I ADMIRE ABOUT
HILLARY.
SHE'S ALWAYS FOUGHT FOR WOMEN'S
RIGHTS, CHILDREN'S RIGHTS FOR
FAMILIES ACROSS THE COUNTRY.
BUT SHE'S A PERSON WHO DELIVERS
RESULTS AND GETS RESULTS.
SHE OPERATES IN PROSE I GUESS.
BUT SHE'S A PERSON WHO REALLY
STUDIES THE ISSUES.
SHE PREPARED FOR THIS DEBATE.
SHE TOOK THIS SERIOUSLY.
I THINK TO SOME EXTENT IN
CONTRAST TO HER OPPONENT, AND
WHEN SHE'S IN OFFICE SHE'LL DO
THE SAME THING.
WORK ON BEHALF OF THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE AND GET RESULTS.
>> ALL RIGHT.
JOHN PODESTA, THANKS FOR MAKING
SOME TIME FOR US.
WE APPRECIATE IT.
>> THANK YOU.
>> WE WILL C
>>> DECISION NIGHT IN AMERICA --
NBC NEWS BRINGS YOU UNPARALLELED
COVERAGE.
JOIN LESTER HOLT, SAVANNAH
GUTHRIE AND CHUCK TODD, LIVE
NOVEMBER 8th, FOR DECISION NIGHT
IN AMERICA ON NBC.
>>> LOOK --
>> WAIT --
>> EVERYTHING I SEE HAS NO
RESPECT FOR THIS PERSON.
>> WELL, THAT'S BECAUSE HE'D
RATHER HAVE A PUPPET AS
PRESIDENT.
>> NO PUPPET.
NO PUPPET.
>> AND IT'S PRETTY CLEAR --
>> YOU'RE THE PUPPET.
>> VLADIMIR PUTIN AND RUSSIA,
THE FIRST OF MANY FLASH POINTS
IN TONIGHT'S 90-MINUTE DEBATE,
THE LAST DEBATE BETWEEN HILLARY
CLINTON AND DONALD TRUMP.
WE WANT TO GO TO THE SPIN ROOM
NOW.
KATY TUR IS THERE.
AFTER EVERY OTHER DEBATE, TRUMP
HAS DECLARED HIMSELF THE WINNER.
WHAT'S THE SENSE YOU'RE GET?
>> THE CAMPAIGN IS PRETTY HAPPY
WITH HIS PERFORMANCE.
ESPECIALLY EARLY ON WHEN HE WAS
ABLE TO GET TO THE DECISIONS
AROUND POTUS.
WHO HE WOULD CHOOSE FOR THE
SUPREME COURT.
APPOINTING CONSERVATIVE JUDGES.
WHAT DID NOT COME UP AND WHAT WE
EXPECTED TO SEE COME UP MORE WAS
ABOUT BENGHAZI.
WE NOTED EARLIER ON THAT THE
BENGHAZI VICTIM'S MOTHER PAT
SMITH WAS INVITED.
AND THERE WAS -- BETWEEN HER AND
HILLARY CLINTON ON STAGE.
HITTING HER ON HER FOREIGN
POLICY.
THAT DID NOT HAPPEN.
THERE WERE ALSO A NUMBER OF
EASILY FACT CHECKED
CONTRADICTIONS THAT TRUMP GAVE,
ONE HIS IRAQ WAR STANCE AND THE
OTHER -- THAT DOES BELIEVE THAT
NORTH KOREA AND SOUTH KOREA --
EXCUSE ME, JAPAN AND SAUDI
ARABIA SHOULD GET NUCLEAR
WEAPONS, HE DID SAY THAT IN THE
PAST.
ALL IN ALL, A BETTER DEBATE
PERFORMANCE THAN TRUMP HAS HAD
THAT THE PAST.
>> IF YOU TAKE THIS AS A WHOLE,
HOW DID -- REALIZING THE
PRESSURE IS ON DONALD TRUMP
TONIGHT, HOW DID HE DO IN THE
PREVIOUS DEBATE?
>> OVERALL HIS BEST PERFORMANCE,
BUT AS NICOLE POINTED OUT IT WAS
HER BEST PERFORMANCE.
HE STEPPED ON HIMSELF.
EVERY NEWSPAPER HEADLINE IS
BREAKING NEWS, DONALD TRUMP SAYS
HE WON'T -- ISN'T READY TO
ACCEPT THE RESULTS.
AND REMEMBER -- WAIT AND SEE.
>> THERE'S THE HEADLINES.
>> THERE'S WHAT EVERY
REPUBLICAN -- AND HERE'S THE
THING, TOM.
EVERY REPUBLICAN ON THE BALLOT
TOMORROW IS GOING TO GET ASKED,
ARE YOU GOING TO ACCEPT THE
RESULTS --
>> BY THE WAY, WAS IT THE SECOND
DEBATE OR YOUR DEBATE THAT HE
WOULD PUT HER IN JAIL IF HE
COULD IF HE BECAME THE
PRESIDENT.
WOULD HAVE HER -- PUT HER IN
JAIL IN THE SECOND DEBATE.
>> IN THE FIRST DEBATE HE'D
SUPPORT HER, AND THEN JAIL HER
IN THE SECOND DEBATE.
>> HE'S CONTRADICTING WELL NOT
ONLY HIMSELF BUT HIS DAUGHTER.
HIS RUNNING MATE AND THE
REPUBLICAN SECRETARY OF STATE
FROM AROUND THE COUNTRY WHO SAY
WE RUN THESE ELECTIONS.
WE ARE TELLING YOU THERE'S NOT
VOTER FRAUD THAT WOULD IMPERIL
THE RESULTS OF THE ELECTION
THAT'S PART OF THE PROBLEM HE
HAS, HE'S SWIMMING AGAINST THE
TIDE OF THE ARGUMENT.
>> LET'S GO TO ANDREA MITCHELL
SHE HAS BEEN FOLLOWING THE
CLINTON CAMPAIGN.
THERE WAS A LOT OF PRESSURE ON
TRUMP AS BEING THE UNDERDOG IN
THE POLLS AND A FAIR AMOUNT OF
PRESSURE ON HILLARY CLINTON TO
HOLD WHAT SHE HAS.
HOW DO HER FOLKS FEEL RIGHT NOW?
>> WELL, THEY'RE OF COURSE
SAYING THEY FEEL VERY CONFIDENT
AND ACTUALLY THEY DO.
THAT HER PERFORMANCE WAS A
STRONG PERFORMANCE.
SHE DID MANAGE TO PIVOT ON
WIKILEAKS TO WHAT THEY WANTED
HER TO TALK ABOUT, WHICH IS TO
TRY TO GET TRUMP TO DISAVOW
VLADIMIR PUTIN TO DISAVOW
SOMEONE SUPPORTING RUSSIAN
ESPIONAGE.
THAT IT'S A STRONG LIKELIHOOD
THAT RUSSIA IS BEHIND THIS
STEALING OF THE E-MAILS AND THE
HACKING THAT WENT TO WIKILEAKS.
AND HE REFUSED TO BACK DOWN WITH
WHAT HE'S DONE ALL ALONG, WHICH
IS NOT TO CRITICIZE VLADIMIR
PUTIN.
ALSO ON NUCLEAR WEAPONS THEY'RE
ON STRONG GROUND.
THIS IS A FIRST DEBATE THAT
CHALLENGED BOTH CANDIDATES ON
THEIR BUDGET AND TAX PROPOSALS.
AND CITED THE COMMITTEE FOR
RESPONSIBLE FEDERAL BUDGETS
WHICH IS THE BEST KNOWN ARBITER
OF THESE THINGS SAYING THAT BOTH
OF THEM ARE WRONG, BUT HE'S FAR
WORSE THAN HER.
IT WAS A SUBSTANTIVE DEBATE.
SHE CALLED HIM TO TASK ABOUT THE
WOMEN WHO ACCUSED HIM OF SEXUAL
ADVANCES.
HE ACCUSED CLINTON OF PUTTING
THEM UP TO IT WHICH IS THE FIRST
TIME HE'S ACTUALLY SAID THAT.
>>> YOU HAVE -- BUT WHAT ABOUT
THE IDEA HE'S GOING TO LOOK INTO
THE RESULTS OF THE ELECTION.
DID THAT GIVE YOU PAUSE?
>> IT DOESN'T ME PAUSE.
REMEMBER AL GORE?
HE CONTESTED THE ELECTION.
>> KELLYANNE CONWAY THE CAMPAIGN
MANAGER TALKING TO HALLIE
JACKSON ABOUT ONE OF THE BIG
HEADLINES TONIGHT AND THAT'S
DONALD TRUMP DEMURRING ON
WHETHER HE'LL ACCEPT THE OUTCOME
OF THE ELECTION.
TOM BROKAW, A THIRD DEBATE.
TYPICALLY DON'T MOVE THE NEEDLE.
>> NO, THEY DON'T.
THE WAY TO MOVE THE NEEDLE IS IF
HE PLAYED TO HER LEVEL, MORE
ENGAGING IN A PERSONAL WAY.
SHE CAME ON AS SHE ALWAYS HAS,
GOING BACK TO HER MOOT COURT
DAY, EXTREMELY WELL PREPARED.
DETAILS ON ALL THE PROPOSALS SHE
WANTED TO GET TO.
SHE GOT TO THAT VERY WELL.
YOU HAVE TO REMEMBER AL GORE HAD
7 MILLION MORE VOTES THAN GEORGE
BUSH AND IT WENT TO THE SUPREME
COURT, WHEN IT WAS OVER, HE
WASN'T HAPPY ABOUT IT BUT I
ACCEPT IT.
THE SAME THING HAPPENED WITH
JOHN KERRY WHO FELT HE WAS
ROBBED OF VOTES IN OHIO.
THERE'S A LONG TRADITION OF HOW
EVER BITTER YOU MAY BE, YOU
ACCEPT IT.
INCLUDING NIXON AGAINST KENNEDY.
>> I'M SURE THAT PLAYED WELL TO
HIS BASE OF SUPPORTERS TONIGHT.
>> I THINK IT DID, BUT, YOU
KNOW, THIS IS A CASE WHERE HE
MAY SURVIVE DEBATE TONIGHT, AND
THE POST DEBATE THE NEXT COUPLE
OF DAYS AREN'T GOING TO GO WELL
FOR HIM.
>> ON THAT ISSUE.
>> HOW HE HANDLES -- AND THE WAY
OTHER REPUBLICANS ARE GOING TO
RAKE HIM OVER THE COALS FOR
THIS.
>> AND HE SAID THE SYSTEM IS
RIGGED, WE CAN'T TRUST THE
RESULTS.
THAT'S NOT AN ARGUMENT FOR HOW
TO WIN.
IT'S AN ARGUMENT AND AN
EXPLANATION FOR WHY YOU LOST.
THAT'S NOT WHERE YOU WANT TO BE.
>> AS WE WRAP UP, THE NEXT TIME
WE'LL SEE EACH OTHER AT A DESK,
ELECTION NIGHT.
>> ELECTION NIGHT.
YES.
>> ONE NIGHT.
>> WE'RE GETTING THERE, MY
FRIEND.
>> NOVEMBER 8th.
WE DON'T WANT TO GO TO 9th.
>> THAT'S GOING TO DO IT FOR OUR
COVERAGE OF THE THIRD AND FINAL
PRESIDENTIAL DEBATE.
MUCH MORE REACTION AND ANALYSIS
ON MSNBC ON CABLE AND ON
NBCNEWS.COM.
ALL THE FALLOUT TOMORROW MORNING
ON "TODAY."
A REMINDER, THE NEXT TIME WE'LL
BE TOGETHER ELECTION NIGHT,
DECISION NIGHT IN AMERICA, 20
DAYS FROM NOW.
FROM OUR ENTIRE TEAM, I'M LESTER
HOLT, GOOD NIGHT FROM LAS VEGAS.